AAHP 260; Kimbrough; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 260 Linda Kimbrough African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Anthony Pierce on March 16, 2012 12 minutes | 7 pages



Abstract: Linda Kimbrough, born in Polk County, Florida recalls her days as a community activist. She recounts her most memorable experience when she ran for city commissioner of Lake Wales and won the election with twice the votes as her competitor. She talks about becoming the first Black female mayor of Lake Wales and her educational journey attending the Florida Technological University. Mrs. Kimbrough describes the impact her college education had regarding her future careers. She then advises her generation to get more involved and for the younger generations to read more in order to obtain the power of knowledge.





Keywords: [African American History; Polk County, Florida]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 260

Interviewee: Linda Kimbrough Interviewer: Anthony Pierce Date: March 16, 2012



	P:	Today is March 16, 2012, would you please state your name? K:	Linda Kimbrough

	P:	And are you comfortable sharing your age? K:	Sure, sixty-five

	P:	Okay, and were you born in Polk County? K:	No.

	P:	How did you come to move here? K:	My husband brought me here.

	P:	Okay and what year was that? K:	In [19]65.

	P:	[19]65, okay. What were race relations like once you got here?



K:  You know I really didn’t pay that much attention to race relations because I was a housewife and I really didn’t go around that much except to the grocery store and to the house because of the children.

P:  And so when you were going to the grocery stores, were there Black stores only that you went to?

K:   No, I went downtown to do my shopping.



	P:	And, at what point did you become a community activist? K:	Oh, probably about twenty years after I got here.

	P:	Okay, now what motivated you to get in and to stay involved?



	K:	Because I like giving back to the community and hoping to improve my community number one.





	P:	Now is this something you saw growing up through your parents, or is this something that was just innate with you that you began?

	K:	No, it was just something that was within me, that I began doing it.



	P:	Okay can you expand on your journey as an activist, and what were some of your most memorable experiences?

	K:	I think some of my most memorable experiences was attending a lot of meetings and I found that for most parts sometimes I would be the only African American that would be there. And then I think that’s what really got me involved, is because I felt like that our people needed to be represented and information needed to be taken back to them because they were missing out on a lot information that was pertinent to African Americans and a lot of opportunities that was available and we were not taking advantage of it because we didn’t know about it. And I think one of the most memorable things that happened with me is when I decided to run for mayor of Lake Wales, not mayor but city commissioner of Lake Wales. And that was kinda an eye-opener, especially with our people, because a lot of our people was really against me as running for commissioner because they didn’t feel like that I needed to run against the person that was already commissioner, which was Mr. James Austin. And I just felt like, that some of the things that he was representing for our community was not right as he [inaudible 3:07] would come to racial slurs and things like that was not what our people was actually about, and people needed to see another side of what our people represent. So I think that was one of my most memorable things in my journey to being an activist.





	P:	Okay, and what was the outcome of this position you ran for?



	K:	Oh I ran with twice the votes that he had. But it was said that I was put in office by the Whites. But it didn’t matter to me how I got there, I was there to represent all the people of Lake Wales, not just my people.

	P:	Excellent, so how did that make you feel with that win?



	K:	It made me feel good because I felt like people had confidence in voting for me because I actually got out and walked the community and told people that when they went to the polls to vote that they make sure have a face to relate to and name that was on the ballot. And that was important to me because I didn’t want them just voting for someone that they had not seen. So it really made me feel good that my work had actually paid off.

	P:	And what motivated you to run for mayor?



	K:	Well, it motivated me to run for mayor because they had never had an African American lady as mayor. And that’s what kinda motivated me, and that was just another step that I would be able to say I accomplished.

	P:	And as the first Black female mayor, what does that mean to you?



	K:	Well it means just another step really for the most parts when I talk to people I never even tell people I was ever mayor of Lake Wales. And I very seldom tell them I was even commissioner because to me that was an accomplishment at that time, that was a title at that time, and you just don’t let things like that go to your head.

	P:	If you could change anything would it be by doing something you wish you had or had not done?





K:   If I could do anything I wish that I would’ve had the ability to motivate my people to attend our meetings, especially city commission meetings or to read a little bit more, to see the things that affect their livelihood in Lake Wales.

P:   How have these experiences molded you into the person that you are today?



	K:	Well I don’t know whether those experiences really molded me to the person that I am today. I think that to me those were just steps that I took in life. I think the molding that I have in my life, it has always been there. It’s something that my parents gave me even though they never really wanted anything like what I want. But I think it was my upbringing and the things that they taught us when I was growing up, and I just always wanted more. From seventh grade I knew I was gonna go to college and get a degree, and I’m the only person in my family that have a degree. So those were just aspirations that have always been there.

	P:	Can you tell me about your educational journey?



	K:	Well, my educational journey, my kids were . . . I started working at the bank in 1973 and I thought that I wanted to further my education and I started going to Webber and then my children’s father died and I had to quit. And then when my children got in high school I, at that time, I was working in Orlando and I went back to school and I went—what’s now known as University of Central Florida was Florida Technological University. And I enrolled there and started going to school there. And at that time there was very, very, very few Blacks. I think that I was only Black in every class that I took at night. That was just something that I wanted to do, and it was very important to me that I make good grades. So I studied very hard and when I graduated, I graduated as Cum Laude of my class.





	P:	Excellent, and what doors do you feel education have opened for you? K:	I think education has opened the doors of some of the jobs that I’ve had.

Because for every job that I’ve had, in my department I’ve always been the only Black. And it has helped me to move up in the jobs that I’ve had. I think that even now with me owning my own business, I think it has a lot to do with education and my own gun of making sure that I want to learn as much I can so I can give back, you know still to my community. You know because I do a lot of getting out information to people about different things. Some legal stuff that even though I’m not a lawyer a lot of stuff that I know if people come to me I’ll just tell them what they need to do. So I think that education had a lot to do with that.

	P:	And within the realm of policy that you’ve been involved in for so long, what are some of the most significant changes that you’ve seen thus far?

	K:	Well, I’ve seen a lot of changes in Lake Wales from the time that I first moved here up until to this point. I‘ve seen where some of our people have advanced more, I’ve seen a lot of changes as far as the city is concerned, but I just think that there is still a lot more to do because I don’t feel like the race relations is where it really should be. There’s still a lot of underlying things that happens in the city that I feel like it could be better as far as our race is concerned.

	P:	And my last question is what advice would you give to today’s generation, what do you know now that you wish you knew when you were their age?

K:   I would give to our generation to get involved. Get involved, and learn as much as you can learn. Because learning will help you read, read because that’s the key. Knowledge is just so, so very important and I don’t think enough of our





young people read enough to get where they need to be. I think a lot of them is very lackadaisical and I think that the few that we have that really want to do something with their lives, they’re outnumbered by the ones that don’t wanna do anything with their lives. So, my thing is get involved, go as high as you can go, do all that you can do, because you only have this one journey, you don’t have a second one. This journey that you’re traveling, you know, make the best of it.

And I just wish that in my time as a young person, my parents could not read nor write, and I just wish in my journey that I would’ve had parents that was literate so that some of the things that I endured sometimes as far as my classes were concerned, I couldn’t go to them because they didn’t know. And kids today have parents that for the most parts that have finished high school if nothing else. So that’s my thing that I wish had been better in my life. But I look back now and I think that was the reason that I tried so hard because I didn’t have parents that could read nor write and it was always important to me to make good grades so I always was an honors student because I strived so hard to overcome and look like I was trying to overcome for my parents. So I think that it is just so important for children today to get an education and just get involved and give back because you have to know that the community that you grew up in, it gave something to you. So you need to be able to give back something to it.

	P:	All right, well I thank you, ma’am, for your time. K:	You’re welcome.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Megan Pitt



	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 8, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019