AAHP 108; Hughes Jr.; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 108 Lawrence Hughes Jr.

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 20, 2010

19 minutes | 10 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Lawrence Hughes Jr. recalls his time at Jerkins High School during its reunion and the sense of community within his home and the school which aided in his academic success. He also details the struggle of consolidating his identities as black and American at the same time. Furthermore, Mr. Hughes recalls his family’s role in his success as well as the success that his siblings have seen. He also explains how he believes that a lot of hunger for growth and knowledge was lost once schools were integrated. Overall, he focuses on the importance of community, family, and religion.





Keywords: [African American History; African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Community; Integration]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 108

Interviewee: Lawrence Hughes Jr. Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: August 20, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral history Program. August 20, 2010 and I’m speaking with Mr. Lawrence E. Hughes.

	H:	Lawrence Hughes.



	W:	Pardon me, Lawrence Hughes Jr., I don’t where I got that E from Mr. Hughes.



Thank you for speaking with me today.



	H:	Okay, it’s my pleasure.



	W:	Mr. Hughes, can you tell me your date and place of birth please? H:	Yes I was born here in Perry October 8, 1939. On Willow Street. W:	Okay and Willow Street now, from here where is Willow Street? H:	Willow Street is north of here, approximately two miles.

	W:	And have you lived in Perry most of your life?



	H:		Most of my life, about six years I was away in South Carolina, but other than that, Perry.

	W:	What part in South Carolina?



	H:	Walterboro, South Carolina and of course I attended college in Columbia, South Carolina at Allen University.

	W:	Okay terrific, what is it about Jerkins High School that gives you the impetus to be here tonight at this celebration?

	H:	First of all, we are home. Secondly, Jerkins had a very important part in our formative development, even though it was compulsory attendance we had to go to school somewhere, I’m glad that I attended Jerkins, because at that time we all had a hunger to move to the next level. We wanted to be better; we wanted to





do something special. In fact we wanted to climb, and that’s the thing it started at home it was reinforced at Jerkins, it was reinforced in the churches that we were attending, so it represented a community forum of everybody working to become better.

W:  In what way did Jerkins focus these community efforts that led to your successes?

H:   By being an extended family.



W:   Could you elaborate on that? What do you mean?



	H:	Okay, well before we attended school every morning my mother had prayer around the table and each of my siblings will bear this out. We heard mom praying to God to crown our heads with wisdom, anoint us with all of knowledge, to protect us from dangers seen and unseen, to throw his ever loving arms of protection around us, and to guide us. And we pretty much felt that we were going to do well because we heard her praying and mom and dad sent all seven of us to college, and six out of seven of us earned college degrees.

	W:	Now they don’t do prayer in school anymore, but there also prayers at Jerkins when you got here at that time as well?

H:   Yes.



W:   And who led those prayers?



	H:	It was a sort of—how should I say it—classroom by classroom, it was not done over the intercom.

	W:	Do you feel that was something important that has been lost in the school system today?





	H:	I wouldn’t venture to say it was lost because chemistry and physics test still make people pray. [Laughter]

	W:	I had to think about that about that for a second.



	H:	So concert prayer isn’t there, and see the thing that was so important—I didn’t realize until many years after I had graduated from college and had been working a few years—what mom was doing in having us to assemble for prayer every morning, that was a group alert and it was also an inspection.

	W:	In what way?



	H:	In that she was checking on each of us, our wellbeing, our disposition. If any were ill in fact she had a chance to see at Morning Prayer how made it through the night and that was touching base.

	W:	Who are your mother and father?



	H:	The late Lawrence and Edna Hughes. W:	And where were they from?

	H:	They were from Jefferson County, in fact excuse my pride, but I must mention this two brothers married two sisters. William and Lawrence Hughes married Edna and Haddie Robinson and the reason why I am so proud about it, in 2009 when Mayor Bloomberg of New York named ‘The Three Most Outstanding Black Men in the Last One Hundred Years’, you may recall he named Dr. W. E. B. Du Bois, A. Philip Randolph, and James Hughes, that helped to build the World Trade Centers. The late James Hughes was my first cousin, our mothers were sisters and our dads were brothers. So for a longtime my family had been trying to be the best Americans that we can be.





	W:	That’s marvelous, why is that important to you?



	H:	It’s what we were reared on. It’s a part of our persona; our being. To do things in such a way that when we stop doing them we are missed.

	W:	Is it possible to take pride as a Black American and a Black Floridian and to be an American these days, because some people say that is a hard thing to do, I mean how do you accomplish that pride with being Black and an American at the same time?

	H:	By being the best that we can be whatever color and because we are Black we don’t regret it one bit.

	W:	This Jerkins historical marker dedication and reunion it seems to be a time of great joy. There’s laughter and people are meeting each other and reacquainting and there’s happy talk and prayerful talk, what does it mean to you to be here today?

	H:	Well it’s just the realization who we have been all along. See, we are a family oriented people and the more we have a chance to come together, celebrate each other, and embrace our culture while at the same time being thankful for God delivering us first from Jim Crow and blessing us to make our way into the American society and to do something. We are Americans that happen to be of African descent.

	W:	Do you think that Jerkins High, going to school here prepared you to be the person you are today and if so, in what way did Jerkins prepare you?

	H:	But of course, Jerkins was the other part of the team of what my parents started and yes no doubt about it. If we had not gone to Jerkins I dare say the following





our parents gave us as a culture we might have done the same thing, but we were at Jerkins so I’m proud we were at Jerkins.

	W:	What was your favorite subject in school and who was your favorite teacher?



	H:	Science was my favorite subject and I hold right now a Bachelor’s in biology and a Masters in chemistry, but I would have to say my favorite teacher was Coach Turner. Because he gave us such a desire to excel, in fact I was playing football for him at 130 pounds and received a scholarship to college and as a running back in college 135 pounds. I received a scholarship from Jerkins to play at Friendship Junior College. You might recall on the night that President Obama won the presidency, the man that came forward and apologized for hitting Congressmen John Lewis also apologized for the way he had treated Black students at a small college in South Carolina, that was Friendship Junior College, our college. The college is no longer there because of the pressure on the college; all funds dried up, so Friendship Junior College is no longer around, but I was very proud to play football there, to further my education there, and there was a sense of pride and a continuation of what Jerkins had given me because on first team there was six of us from Jerkins High, on the first team at Friendship Junior College.

	W:	Do you have brothers and sisters?



	H:	Yes, my oldest sister Norma Scott in Thomasville, Georgia. She was a finalist in the year 2000 for the Georgia Nurse of the Year, and I’m second in the family, Bishop Tommy Hughes in next to me, then James Hughes who retired as a project engineer for the Air Force, and Warner Robins in forth, and next to him





will be Henry Hughes, and next to him will be Dr. John Hughes of Houston, Texas, in fact when they decided to implement an accelerated medical program at the University of South Florida the first Black to receive his degree from that program. It was a three year program for medical students and they would pit them against four year students to see how well they did and those three year students tend to done so well that they were going through a three year accelerated medical program, but the first Black to receive a degree from that accelerated medical program was my youngest brother Dr. John Hughes, he’s a [inaudible at 9:59] in Houston, Texas now and is also a clinical professor at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Texas. And my youngest still works at the high school here, Wilhelmina Hughes.

	W:	So all of this came from family, and from the start at Jerkins High School?



	H:	Yes, started with mom and dad, and we came through Jerkins. However, my youngest sister finished at Taylor County High School, she attended Jerkins until ninth grade and she went on to Florida State to earn her degree, but the rest of us were, Allen University, FAMU, University of Georgia, University of South Florida yeah, that’s about it.

	W:	All of this speaks so much of leaders being built in your family. I’m curious, what is your definition of leadership?

	H:	The ability to influence others and our parents influenced us and they gave us what they receive from their parents. And there’s a story that in Annie Roberts, who was a mid-wife delivered Black and White babies in Jefferson County and





Leon County and that was my grandmother on my mother’s side, so we were all attracted to science and medicine.

	W:	When you come to the sum of everything you’ve done in your life and you think about the contributions that Jerkins has made, do you think that schools changing from segregated to integrated has effected students in a way that has, I don’t want to say kept them from achieving as much as you and your brothers and sisters have, but obviously there must be some type difference that many people in your generation that I’ve spoken to have talked about this distinction in the schools with going from segregated to integrated. What are your impressions on how the schools changed, from the closing of Jerkins, the closing of Black schools in the state of Florida and moving toward integration?

	H:	I retired from the school system here, if I have to select one causative agent, I would say that there was not the same hunger for growth and knowledge and excellence with integration that we had during segregation. Now, we had our salutatorian here, our family had salutatorian at Taylor County High, but I say it’s all attributed to what the family insist on, segregation or integration if the family insist on doing the very best you can and becoming the very best that you can, in implementing and deploying those things that you can gather from the village, then success will be at the end of the road.

	W:	So family, but then also community is very important. H:	Family and community.

	W:	So has community been lost as we transitioned from the segregated to integrated schools?





	H:	A small sense of community. See I was in the “bridge group” that is, I was teaching here when we closed down and moved to Taylor County High, and we cannot say that we lost so much that we can never grow again. I still say if the family insists on students doing their best in an integrated or segregated society then you can grow, you can become, you can actualize.

	W:	Do you remember where you were when you first heard that Jerkins High was gonna be closed?

	H:	Yes down there teaching chemistry, right down the hall.



	W:	How did you find out? Did somebody come in, was there an announcement?



	H:	No there was the, how shall I say it? There was HEW and the county had a suit against HEW.

	W:	Health Education and Welfare?



	H:	Yes and it’s strange that you should mention that, because those Southern states failing to integrate properly had their funds taken away from them. The Taylor County School Board choose to file a suit and to fight that.

	W:	And that was the case of Alexander V. Holmes County?



	H:	No, that was Finch V. The Taylor County Board of Public Instruction. It was argued before the United States Supreme Court, the Taylor County School Board won and all eleven Southern states got their monies back.

	W:	Wow.



	H:	So that may be the reason mark is going to be at the ceremony, because the Taylor County School Board sued HEW and they won their suit. And as a result





of that decision all eleven Southern states that had lost their funds got them back. So it was a landmark decision.

W:  So this was a decision that said, that the schools, how they were behaving was appropriate, is that correct?

H:  In fact they were saying “Don’t take money from a county because they are not totally integrated, if they are attempting to integrate, if they are trying to comply then let them have their money.”

W:   So kind of an all deliberate speed interpretation?



	H:	Yes in fact, intent became more important than implementation I would say. W:	Well I find that interesting because Brown. I began public school in the State of

Florida in 1971 that was the first year of integration, why did it take seventeen years-

	H:	No it was the suit, the ruling came down in [19]73 before HEW, I mean before the United States Supreme Court.

	W:	So when schools were integrated in [19]71 that was still drastic?



	H:	The suit was still underway, yes and in fact, I think it was [19]67 or [19]68 all funds have been pulled and head start had to be down at Vol Tech. Since it was in litigation a lot of things were not as they should be.

W:  Well Mr. Hughes this has been fascinating to hear, your family story of success, the stories of your ties and deep belief and deep believe of the community here in Jerkins High School, and in God.





	H:	And in God, to be God be the glory, for all of it, for all of the things we’ve discussed here. Because God made the difference because you know he blessed us.

	W:	Well I like to conclude every interview by thanking the person I’m speaking with, so thank you very much. And also to give you the opportunity to close our interview with any other comments that you might have, whether they be about the interview or something else and at the conclusion of your comments that will conclude the interview.

	H:	Okay, well I’m going to say this, in 1986 I attended a banquet for the Florida Association of Equal Opportunity Professionals and the late Alex Haley was our speaker. And he said that “Black people in general have not celebrated themselves and their accomplishments enough they had not taken pictures, they had not left the kind of emblems or symbols of what we have done.” So what you are doing fits right in it, this is very good. I applaud what you are doing, I champion what you are doing, thank you for what you are doing because you are helping to leave footprints for somebody to check a hundred years from now when you and I will not be around, but because we are here and we are doing what we have just done, somebody will get the story. So thank you very much.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, September 5, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019