AAHP 611; Young; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 611 Mattie Young 6-27-2018 Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on June 27, 2018

38 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Julian Valdivia sits down with Mattie Young, a Fort Myers native and the daughter of well-known local politician Veronica Shoemaker. As a young girl, she joined the Girl Scouts, participating in a variety of events and programs. Raised by a widowed single mother and devout Christian, Young became involved with her faith at an early age, attending Mount Olive Methodist Episcopal Church. She remembers her mother’s early political campaigns, remembering that a love for her community spurred her mother to become active in local politics. Before politics, her mother had been active in PTA, the Dunbar Little League, and other local associations. Shoemaker was elected to the city council in the 1980s, where she emphasized creating a clean- living environment for Fort Myers residents regardless of socioeconomic status. Young also remembers her mother’s involvement with NAACP-led integration protests including sit-ins and marches. She followed in her mother’s footsteps, participating in a mass walk-out at the integrated North Fort Myers High School, protesting the maltreatment of Black students. After graduating high school, she attended Florida State University. Looking back on her time at North Fort Myers High School, Young reflects that the walk-out was a major step in bringing the Black and White students together by openly addressing the issues brought on by integration.





Keywords: [Florida, Black community, local politics, Girl Scouts, Fort Myers, politician, feminism, Christianity, civil rights, activism, family history, integration, walk-out, North Fort Myers High School]



AAHP 611

Interviewee: Mattie Young Interviewer: Julian Valdivia Date: June 27, 2018



	V:	This is Julian Valdivia with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m in Fort Myers, Florida at the Veronica Shoemaker Florist and today I am speaking with Mattie Young, the daughter of Veronica Shoemaker. Mrs. Young, thank you for being with us today.

	Y:	Well, I’m glad you included me.



	V:	Yeah. [Laughter] we had to restart so that’s…yeah. Okay, so the first thing I want to ask then is: what year were you born?

	Y:	1953.



	V:	Okay. In Fort Myers, Florida I presume? Y:	Yes.

	V:	Okay.



	Y:	One of few natives.



	V:	All right, and I understand, well, I already said it. Your mother was Veronica Shoemaker, who’s probably like one of the most influential politicians that Fort Myers has ever had. What was she like as a mother to you?

	Y:	Okay, as a mother she was pretty much a normal mother of that particular time. Where I see a lot of changes in mothers today, but she was a very strict parent. She was a Christian. She required us to participate in Sunday school and church every Sunday, and church activities. She was very involved at that time, even as we were growing up in the community and her community participation actually started because of us, her children. I had two brothers, younger, and they were with the little league, boy scouts. I was a brownie, and she was there





participating in all of those activities and events supporting those programs and supporting us. So, she was a very involved single mother, was very strict, had strong work ethics, and she also instilled that in us as we were coming up to be self-sufficient, stand on your own morals. She was just a good good parent.

	V:	If you don’t mind me asking, because I heard you say she was single mother, what had happened to your father?

	Y:	Okay, my father was with us early on during my formative years but then he got sick. He was a diabetic, and they started with a leg amputation and it ended up in his passing away. I think we were like…young, so that’s what happened to my father. He was a diabetic, and he was sick. He was a truck driver, and he also worked with jovial farms, gladiolus farms.

	V:	Okay.



Y:  And that’s where we all got our interest—my mom and all. She worked for them, too, in the flower business, so he delivered the product. And so he passed away in Fort Lauderdale in the hospital, so that’s pretty much what happened with him.

V:   Okay. So your family got in the flower business through the gladiolus industry. Y:  Yes.

	V:	I want to know what ever happened with the gladiolus industry, this is still like a learning process for me, like what happened with the gladiolus industry here?

	Y:	Okay.



	V:	Do you know?



	Y:	I’m not sure, but they work with the Povias, P-O-V-I-A-S. V:	Okay.





	Y:	And what’s so amazing is I worked with the school district for thirty-six years and right before I left, I got to have one of the Povia’s children’s wife to work for me.

	V:	Wow!



	Y:	It was a flip in that this young lady was a school social worker, and she married a Povia, and she came and applied for a job, and I got to hire her. So, as far as the gladiolus business I’m not sure it’s still—around here in some areas, there’s a guy at farmers market who is growing and grows every other year a crop of glads that we can purchase from. He knew my mom. He worked with my mom, and the glads are around. A lot of them are shipped in through California, Colombia, and we buy from local growers and we use the glads, but it’s not as prevalent here in Fort Myers, Lee County as it was.

	V:	Okay.



	Y:	But glads are still around, and they’re still beautiful.



	V:	All right. I was just curious because I always wondered I always heard about how big the industry was here, and I’m like I wonder what ever happened.

	Y:	Yes.



	V:	Okay, well I want to ask then about your mother’s political activities. She started running in like the late [19]60s right?

	Y:	I would have to go and look, but she ran for seventeen years. V:	Yep.

	Y:	So if we do the math, if I get the—[if I] go back and do some research I would say yes.





	V:	I was going to say, because I remember I think she was first elected onto the city council in like 1982, I think?

	Y:	It may have been.



V:  Yeah, early [19]80s. Do you remember what—because you were a teenager at the time still living with your mother, I presume. Do you remember like what her motivations were for running?

	Y:	She was a person that believed in and loved her community. And her community was not only just Dunbar, but it was Lee County. And she believed in the only way that you can make improvements in your community is to be involved. Her thing was you can’t make improvements being on the outside, you need to be on the inside. I guess it was like a natural occurrence with her being president of the PTA and president of the Dunbar little league and having worked in all these different associations. She was really, not knowing, doing the groundwork to develop her leadership skills, and I guess she somewhat walked in her purpose. So, people asked if she would run and she said she would run, and she did. She was always the type that was very persistent. She didn’t give up, and she felt like every time she lost it was not a loss, but it was like one step closer to achieving her goal in which she finally did when she was elected.

	V:	Yeah. Do you remember what were some of the major issues that she ran on? Y:	Wow.

	V:	[Laughter]



	Y:	This was city council. Well, her thing was about cleaning up the community. V:	Okay.





	Y:	And making sure that the community’s needs at that time, which was Dunbar, that they’d be represented, known, and that she spoke for those who could not speak.

	V:	Okay.



	Y:	That was her thing.



	V:	You said cleaning up the community, cleaning up in what way?



	Y:	Okay. Okay, we’re talking environmental issues, as far as making the environment safe, clean, dealing with junkyards, dealing with possibly laws that had been acted, enacted, that some may have worked against our community; to improve the area.

	V:	Okay.



	Y:	Then she worked to ensure that there was adequate housing for so many who were homeless and needed homes. She just was in there dealing with the issues representing the community and she—when she was elected, she was elected at large, so it was not at that time single member districts. So her focus was and always had been on the entire community, Lee County, Fort Myers.

	V:	Okay.



	Y:	Okay.



	V:	I wanted to ask too, because I think, I hope I get this right from memory, your family is part of Friendship Baptist, right?

	Y:	No.



	V:	No. Mount Olive?



	Y:	Mount Olive African Methodist Episcopal Church.





	V:	Okay. How involved was your mother in the church when you were growing up?



	Y:	Very involved. She sang in the choir. She was a steward on their leadership board, she was just very involved in the choir, steward. She attended conferences and you name it. She was there in the church.

	V:	I only wanted to ask, because I know during like the Civil Rights era and stuff because I know, well at least I think, it was late [19]60s when your mother became politically active. I want to know if your mother had ever been involved in like any of like planned marches or sit-ins that happened in the late [19]60s in Fort Myers?

	Y:	Well the thing with my mom was, too, my granddad was a minister, and she was the oldest daughter of twelve children. There was a son ahead of her, Henry, but her religious training—and I know I’m going back and forth—her religious training was developed in the home because of my grandfather. As far as marches, activities, she participated with the NAACP, she participated with—there were marches. I believe she did participate, but I think what happened was more of the marches came…I know I was involved in a march at North Fort Myers High School.

	V:	Oh, okay! That was the walkout, right?



	Y:	The walkout from 1969, [19]70, I think, but my mom, she was more on the end of going to meetings to present the issues and working with NAACP and working with groups to ensure that we participated in what was going on in the United States at that time as far as the Civil Rights era.

	V:	Okay.





	Y:	She was that connect, that, “Oh this is happening.” Brown vs the Board of Education, dararara, this is what was happening and we need to be there observing and learning and knowing what’s happening, because it’s going to affect us. But she was not one to sit down with her children to explain all of that. We just observed it. We were just children not really realizing all that was going on. We were just in our little cocoon in our community. Extended family people where we all looked after each other, and we had others helping to raise our families. So, yes, she was involved and maybe she may have marched, but I know she was at the table when all of this stuff was occurring.

V:  Okay. Now I want to ask about you then after having asked about your mother. I want to ask a couple questions about you growing up. So since you participated in the walkout at North Fort Myers you were part of—

Y:  My husband and I, and I will never forget—Virgil Fuller, he’s deceased—we participated. It was the class of 1971.

	V:	Okay.



	Y:	That had the walkout.



	V:	That was the first integrated class, right?



Y:  Well, I integrated to schools before there was full blown integration. I had gone to Fort Myers Middle School as a Ripple.

	V:	What’s a Ripple?



	Y:	That’s their school mascot. V:	Oh, okay.





	Y:	I was there and that was before that was when it was freedom of choice, and my mom made sure that I went over to—I think it was eighth grade, seventh or eighth grade. Eighth grade! I went over to Fort Myers Middle School.

	V:	Okay.



	Y:	And then from there I went to Fort Myers High, and I think I stayed at Fort Myers High one year and then we transferred, because I think what happened was, I don’t know if it was, it was full blown integration at that time.

	V:	They closed Dunbar High.



	Y:	They closed Dunbar. It was full blown integration, so what happened was I think I had to go on this side of—at the time I think it was Anderson Avenue and Martin Luther King—I had to go North. So I went to North, because it was like night and day being at Fort Myers High compared to North. North, even though we walked out and there were problems, the people at North welcomed us with open arms, that’s after we walked out and everything. I mean we were like family, and they knew us, we knew them, and that pretty much was it.

	V:	Okay, you described it as being like night and day between North and Fort Myers High, what was it like going to Fort Myers High for that one year then?

	Y:	Well, I guess it was pretty much like whatever you would read in most magazines, I mean and books about those students who were the first ones to integrate a school. When we went to Fort Myers Middle and Fort Myers High, I would pass by students, White students, and smile and speak, they would give me a quick smile and then it would be gone. It’s like—

	V:	Oh, okay.





	Y:	And it was it was tumultuous times when we didn’t know each other. They didn’t know us, we didn’t know them. A lot of, still going on, institutional racism. I know that at Fort Myers High a lot of our students got the worst teachers because we knew they were bad. I mean you could be sitting in a class and tell.

	V:	Yeah.



	Y:	Especially like substitute teachers. I’m not saying it was a sub, but we were given some of the worst teachers that they had, and I don’t know if it was because they had tested us or we got there too late and the kids had already been assigned to the better teachers. I don’t know what it was but I do know, from my experience at Fort Myers High in ninth grade, I had some—I knew I had piss poor math teacher, and he was terrible. Kids would run up and look in the math book. He’d have it opened, oh come on up. Not teaching, not anything, and we would sit back, crazy, not knowing, thinking that, “Wow we gonna make an A here,” and all this other stuff, and then realized that as we grew up, the joke really was on us because we didn’t learn math and the book was there, and we were looking at it and writing the answers down, and he was sitting there, having a good time and after it was all over we realized. Now you look back and you see, we got the short end of the deal. He had his ability to do math, we didn’t, and he didn’t teach us. We didn’t know, and we didn’t say anything to our parents. We just thought this man is really ignorant and we didn’t know. We didn’t know what was happening, but everybody else knew that the better students and students with the higher income, working income, they got the better teachers.





	V:	So, I want to ask then because I’m trying to avoid—I don’t want to like put words in your mouth and stuff like that, but did they like try to then like I mean in a sense they sort of maintained segregation at the high school by like—did they segregate the classes…were there more Black students with like the teachers that performed more poorly?

	Y:	That was my experience. V:	Okay.

	Y:	That was my experience. Now there were some students who had the better teachers, a few of the students, but when we first went over it was like you got what was left after everyone else had chosen their classes and had been assigned, because I later learned that having been in the classroom myself, parents request sometimes the teachers they want, so those classes fill up first and fast. So, a lot of you know—we got a lot of leftovers.

	V:	Were there any Black teaching staff at Fort Myers High?



	Y:	At that time I didn’t pay that much attention. There may have been a few. There may have been a few.

	V:	I’m only asking because I know, I’ve already interviewed George Mayo and



	Lavone Sims who went to North Fort Myers High Y:	Okay that’s what I know.

	V:	Yeah, but I didn’t know if there were any teachers there who could also like talk on that.

	Y:	Maybe. I don’t know when Mrs. Booker went there. V:	Mrs. Booker?





	Y:	Enette Booker.



	V:	Enette Booker.



	Y:	But she was a math teacher and then she later became a—what did she become? A dean, and then she became assistant principal.

	V:	Okay.



	Y:	She’s very brilliant. She’s a brilliant person, and that’s one thing I did—you know what? Maybe they were but the Black teachers are, and I’m not saying this in a negative sense, but the higher economic level kids got those teachers. The best teachers, because I think they tested the teachers to see what their academic ability was, and they determined that based on their testing, now this is some of the things I heard, they went to certain schools.

	V:	Okay, and these were all the teachers that they took from Dunbar High. Y:	Yes.

	V:	Yeah.



	Y:	Yes, yes, yes.



	V:	Okay.



	Y:	Yes, yes, yes.



	V:	So then, I want to ask then, actually there’s one thing I forgot when I asked about—because I ask everyone about it, but I don’t know, no one I’ve really asked knows that many details on it. Do you know about, I’ve read and heard that there was a riot at Fort Myers High. This is going to be the last question about Fort Myers High. There was a riot there where they had brought in dogs to use on the students. Where you there when that happened?





	Y:	I probably wasn’t. No, I wasn’t. I don’t know anything about that.



	V:	Okay. All right then. I’ll move on to just asking about North Fort Myers High, because I’ve heard about the walkout from Mr. Sims.

	Y:	Okay.



	V:	Why, do you remember why the Black students had the walkout at North Fort Myers High? Or I should ask what was your motivation for walking out?

	Y:	Well I was really scared. V:	Oh were you?

	Y:	Oh my, was I scared. I was really scared in that I didn’t know how I was going to get back in and I said, you know the whole time I was walking I was thinking oh lord my mom is going to kill me. The whole time we were walking across that bridge I was saying oh lord my mom is going to kill me. Because she sent me out there for education, and there I was acting like a fool. I’m serious, and I think it was matter of disrespect on both parts. I think that we had had enough of all, you know, a lot of the subtle racism. A lot of things happened that people don’t realize. Like sometimes people will call you a name and you pass by and they will call your name and you don’t see, say that White person or that person who called that Black person a name, you don’t see them call because they know how to play the game.

	V:	Yeah.



	Y:	Like with Trump right now. Trump is all out letting everybody know, he doesn’t bite his tongue. Back then, people would say [Whispers], “Hey nigger.” And one of them would go off and the first thing that would happen, the teachers would





run up there to support. Maybe it was a White kid that called a Black kid nigger, but they didn’t hear the White kid, so they automatically assumed that it was us. And a lot of times the Black kids would get physical versus maybe the White kids or some of the other kids who may have initiated the bullying or the act, and you’d never know it. And you see that even happening now and I don’t know if I should say this but…

	V:	All right.



	Y:	Okay. We walked out because of just getting used to each other.



	V:	Yeah, and I was going to say too it was—I mean it really seems like it was just like a lot of little things that just built up.

	Y:	Frustration. Uh-huh.



	V:	Were there Black students allowed to join like student organizations and stuff like that?

	Y:	Oh yes.



	V:	When you first came?



	Y:	That’s why I said it was like night and day. In Fort Myers High you’d have to be rich or super smart to be involved, and already been picked out to be homecoming person; to be cream of the crop, because of who your family was or what they could afford to do for the school. So either you’re rich or either you were super smart to get involved or you were super talented in some aspect, maybe in sports or something like that. So that’s how it was done there.

	V:	Okay, so I wanted to know too because I think Mr. Sims mentioned that the walkout happened at the time.





Y:   He was there.



V:  I don’t remember what they—I think they call it. Because I know they didn’t have Black history month back then, I think he said it was like negro history week that they had, or negro history day is what they called it then.

Y:   Okay.



	V:	And students were going around with like posters or they were putting up posters of prominent Black figures and things like that.

	Y:	I don’t know about what was happening, all I know was there was a fight in the courtyard and that’s what happened. There was a fight in the courtyard and for some reason I guess the teaching of our integration and everything had just boiled over. Now that’s for me. He probably knew more than I did, but that’s what happened.

	V:	Okay, and I want to ask did any of the students get help from like the Black— because I mean obviously the Black teachers understood what was going on— was there like any kind of like solidarity in the walkout between the Black teachers and the students?

	Y:	Explain that please.



	V:	Like were Black teachers involved in the student protest and things like that?



	Y:	I don’t think so. I think it was all about them holding onto their jobs and doing the right thing to support the administration and that stuff. Now that’s the way I saw it. I don’t think that they were involved. I didn’t see their involvement, maybe they were, but I didn’t know.





	V:	Okay. Again, I only ask all this because again I’m just trying to like piece this together for myself. I mean nothing’s been written before so.

	Y:	I don’t know if they were involved.



	V:	Okay, and I forgot to ask afterwards, did you end up attending college afterwards?

	Y:	Yes.



	V:	Where’d you go?



	Y:	I went to Florida State. V:	Okay.

	Y:	Well I started at, at the time it was Edison, and then I went to Florida State. V:	Okay.

	Y:	But the key piece was after that walkout we all came together. It brought us all together I mean black and white. We were like one family because over there there were teachers and people like Lauren Hoover.

	V:	Okay.



	Y:	Harriet Bohannon. They cared about us, and they showed it, and they brought in Black teachers and Black administrators, and for me they were—they cared about us. Some Black kids would act out in certain classes, but there were certain classes and it seemed like some of the teachers were fearful of one of the kids, but there teachers likes Harriet Bohannon who taught English. The worst thug, and I don’t mean it in a sense, it could be Black thug, White thug, Spanish or whatever, the worst child in the school knew when you walked in Harriet Bohannon’s class who was White from Alabama, you better have a piece of





paper and a pencil, and you better come in there look like you want to learn, because she was not going to tolerate it. So we came together and we’ve been together since. That’s what I like about North High.

	V:	I was going to ask, why did North, I mean I know you talk about like the teachers being accepting and things like that, why did North come together after the march?

	Y:	I think it was because when there’s tension and then finally it comes to a head, I think that’s what happened. I think we’d come over there, they were trying us, we were trying them, things were happening. We would whisper about what was happening, they would whisper. Just little until it just came to a head and we blew. They blew and after that it was like everybody started talking to each other. Everybody started trying to figure out. We don’t want this to happen again and we got to deal with it, and we all want to get along. That what I realized afterwards.

	V:	Okay, all right and then I just have to ask then, after the march or after you had participated in the march, how did your mother react?

	Y:	Okay, she was upset and as I was marching across that river walking I said, “Oh Lord, how we gonna get back into school? We’ve probably been suspended.” I mean we were thinking about. I was. And when I got there, she went off because at the time she said, “I didn’t send you to school to be a fool. I sent you to school to be getting an education.” And then after it was all over, through the NAACP, efforts of people like our Reverend [Inaudible 33:34], Billy Green, NAACP lawyer. I think his name was Chaplin? We all got back in, and when we got back in it was





like, okay. And it was like it was like a breath of fresh air. We broke the ice. It’s all over, so now let’s become students. Let’s work together. We’re going to be here with each other, we’re not going anywhere, let’s play football, let’s get on the student council, let’s become involved in student activities. Let’s study or get into clubs and organizations at school, and let’s become one big family.

	V:	Okay.



	Y:	And that’s what happened. V:	All right. Well that answers—

	Y:	Well, that’s my experience, and I was at the front of the line marching.



	V:	Oh, okay. Do you remember who the people were or do you remember who organized the march, or if there were any organizers?

	Y:	We did. My husband and I, and this guy name Virgil Fuller and God must have been with us at that time, because the key peace was we said let’s leave this place and we leave it orderly. Don’t fight, let’s not be violent, let’s all walk in a straight line. We didn’t know nothing about no marching and protesting and nothing else that was going on anywhere else and we said let’s just be peaceful, let’s not disrespect anybody, let’s leave here and just don’t go back until they fix it.

	V:	Okay.



	Y:	And that’s what we did. Let’s not go back until it’s fixed and then the whole time I was like, “Oh lord, my mom.”

	V:	So how did you guys spread the word about walking out then? Y:	No, there were some that stayed.





	V:	Oh yes.



	Y:	Oh there were some that stayed because they knew that their parents. I guess they knew, but for me I don’t know why but I guess I was so, at the time, kind of militant and we just, you know they saw us, they left, they saw us because there was a fight in the courtyard and we all just lined and said let’s leave this place.

Next thing we knew we saw the doggone news press coming across the bridge [Inaudible 36:21]. It was just scary. It was scary because you didn’t—I didn’t—we didn’t know what was going to happen. All we knew was, “Let’s leave because we don’t want to be a part of this.” That’s all we knew.

	V:	Okay, if I could ask too, because I know you mentioned that some students stayed. What happened to the students that—

	Y:	Nothing, nothing. They just benefited from us. They benefit from us. A lot of the students that stayed were involved with the school. That’s pretty much what happened.

	V:	All right then, well that was my last question. Thank you for talking with me, for this time. I been interrupting your works, too, so I feel kind of bad but thank you.







[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amanda Lorenzo, September 10, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 26, 2020

	Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 23, 2021