Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 471 James Worthy

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant on January 27, 2017

3 minutes | 3 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 471

Interviewee: James Worthy Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant Date: January 27, 2017



	D:	Okay today is Friday, January 27th, and the IBC farewell is underway in the next thirty minutes. And I am sitting here with Mr.—

	W:	James Worthy.



	D:	James Worthy, thank you Mr. Worthy. We just want to get some reflections on the IBC and what it means to you and that sort of thing. So, I was wondering kinda, what were your first experiences with the IBC when you came here?

	W:	Well I came to the University of Florida 2012, actually Summer B 2012 and the IBC was pretty much one of the first places I actually went to hang out at. My first BSU meeting was at the IBC and since then I’ve found the IBC as pretty much a home away from home. Anytime I had free time I was there. When I first got there, there was always titillating conversation, some interesting people there and I was very welcomed as, you know, part of the family. I never really worked for the IBC, but I was a part of the Blue Print Black Male Enrichment program that pretty much had me working at the IBC. But as years have gone by I have really developed a great appreciation for the building and for what it stands for.

Upon furthering my education here, I actually learned that one of my cousins went to the University of Florida in 1971 and was one of those individuals that were arrested for the rights of the students at O’Connell’s office, and she told me her side of the story, how she was feeling and how proud she was to be a part of a movement to get that building there. So, the house has very sentimental value to me and I wish more people would love it as much as I do.

	D:	Do you remember your cousin’s name?



AAHP 471; Worthy; Page 2



	W:	Bettina Gale Bryant.



	D:	Okay cool, cool, and then this transition now, moving from the house to the Reitz Union. How do you feel about the space in the Reitz and the way it has been utilized and the future of it?

	W:	I mean I’m glad we have a dedicated space and I’m happy that we had two dedicated spaces, you know. I guess the Reitz facility, it’s different you know. I mean the same people kind of but it’s a different environment. It doesn’t feel like home and hopefully the new space will feel like home again. But I still feel most comfortable here. That’s why I’m here now.

	D:	And then I guess, finally, what’s your major and your classification? W:	I am a senior art and technology major.

	D:	Cool and then if you summarize the IBC in just a couple of words. What words come to mind when you think of the IBC?

	W:	Family, empowerment, historical. I don’t know. D:	Okay, that’s still good.

	W:	That’s just some words.



	D:	Thank you again and I am Justin Dunnavant signing out. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Allison Mitchell, July 10, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, October 15, 2018 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019