AAHP 425B; Rainey; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 425B Eddie L. Rainey African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on September 4, 2015 45 minutes | 20 pages



Abstract: Mr. Rainey starts the interview sharing his family’s migration to Newtown, Florida from Georgia due to more opportunities for Black folk. He reflects on attending church every week and really being raised by the community. He discusses Booker High School, the Black school in Newtown and his time at FAMU (Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University). He worked for the Post Office for over three decades. He concludes the interview discussing his hopes for the future of Newtown and his hope for Black youth.



Keywords: [Booker High School; Newtown, Florida; FAMU; Florida Black History; African American History]



Standards

	SS.912.C.2.8 Analyze the impact of citizen participation as a means of achieving political and social change.

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.



































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 425B

Interviewee: Eddie L. Rainey Interviewer: Vickie Oldham Date: September 4, 2015



	O:	Please give me your name.



	R:	My name is Eddie L. Rainey Jr.



	O:	Mr. Rainey, who are your parents?



	R:	My father would be Eddie L. Rainey Sr. and my mother would be Mary Lee Rainey.

	O:	Okay and we are taping on November the 16th, 2015. What were the circumstances that brought your family to Sarasota?

	R:	I think that trying to raise a family and the need to have sufficient funds to raise a family brought my father here and he came in from a little town, Ocilla, Georgia and Griffin, Georgia. Two small towns, and he came with his father, Jay E. Rainey. And when they arrived in Sarasota, I was not yet on the face of the earth. They gave birth to me after they arrived here. So that’s the story of it really. That’s about it. They came to improve their needs, improve their living conditions, and to provide a better life for the family.

	O:	They couldn’t make much money in Georgia? In Ocilla?



	R:	Well, let me put it like this, salaries in some parts of the South are very, very slim, very poor, not many people can make enough money to have a decent life. Oh sure, you could go out and perhaps get enough for a meal, maybe to pay your housing, but beyond that there wasn’t much room for anything else. For education, for your kids, or for just a good life.

	O:	Do you remember the address where they settled when they came to Sarasota? R:	[Deep sigh]





O:  Or a general vicinity?



	R:	I remember the address but it was not a street address. It was a RFD number which was an automated service by the post office, into a box that was housed on the street. That’s how we received our mail.

	O:	Okay, so then, give me a location then of the house because we’d like to know where our historic zones are.

R:  The house was in the 16 Herbert block, the even side of then 33rd street, which no longer—it’s been changed several times since then. It went from 33rd, I believe, to 27th, then only to Martin Luther King.

O:  Okay, what kind of work did your parents do?



R:  My dad came in as a waiter at some of the restaurants here locally and that’s how he made a living for us. And so did my mom, she worked as a—in hotels in things like that—

	O:	Do you remember where? Which restaurants and which hotel?



	R:	Oh I couldn’t remember my mom working. It’s not a resort, but it’s on Riviera Drive, the Riviera apartments. My dad after so many years, saved enough money to buy himself a truck and tractor. And he began as a hauling dirt, repairing yards and this sort of thing. So he made a decent living after he got that equipment.

	O:	He had his own business then? R:	Yes.

O:  Okay, so what are your earliest memories of growing up as a little boy? R:  In Sarasota?

O:  Uh-huh





	R:	Well, I can remember as a child, starting school at Booker High, well Booker Elementary, I’m sorry, and at that time Booker elementary was a two story building. Two rooms—Two or three rooms on the bottom, and I think two or three rooms on the top. And later as a—growing up, I became interested in sports and I began to play many, many sports. Anything that I could, I, ya know, I did. Then later I was drafted to service in the military, paratroopers, broke my leg, and—but overall, I think I had a good life, for the circumstances. I can’t complain.

Complaining is for losers. You go ahead. You take the hand that you were dealt and you deal with it. And that was always my theory. You don’t complain, you just keep moving forward. You try to improve from day to day, from week to week. Now you’re gonna have some bad times, bad times will happen, but if you’re strong— you should be strong enough to overcome them. So.

	O:	What about, you were going to mention the hotel where your mom worked. R:	It was—I can only give you the name of it. I can’t give you—

	O:	Oh the Riviera.



	R:	Riviera apartments on Riviera Drive. O:	Okay. That’s right.

	R:	Almost at the front of Gulf Stream, when you turn right and you go down one street then there’s a Riviera Drive.

	O:	Okay



	R:	And that’s where she worked



	O:	Okay. Paint the picture for us of what Newtown looked like. R:	Back in those days?





	O:	Back in those days, for those of us who didn’t live then



	R:	Okay. Orange Avenue was a brick street that was very narrow. O:	Brick?

	R:	Yeah, it was red brick. O:	Cobblestone.

	R:	Beg your pardon?



	O:	Cobblestone.



	R:	I would imagine it was just red brick, is all I can remember. There were several Black owned businesses on Martin Luther King—well on then on 33rd street and I can remember the names of some of the businesses such as Jack Jones who was the parents of Ed, Ed James. I mean the grandparents. I made that same mistake last—there were several businesses there. [Long pause] Marlows, we had what we call—

	O:	Marlows?



	R:	Marlows was there. And then— O:	What was Marlows?

	R:	It was like an all-purpose store that you would go and you could buy potato chips and different little things. But the main store was the one we called the corner store. Right on the corner of Ospray and now Martin Luther King and that was a general purpose, you could buy all of your needs, especially food. You could go in there and buy it and there was another store one block down, Mr. Winn, we would call him. Winn’s grocery story, we would go there to buy groceries and this sort of thing. And across the street we had Neil Umphrey, he had what we call a drug





store which was pharmacy and we could go there and buy any needs like if we caught a cold, we’d go there and get the caster oil. You could get anything that you need to cure you. So, there were many other small businesses there and I would be remised ‘cause I can’t name them all.

	O:	Oh, Okay. And what about religious traditions? As I understand it, people went to church and there were a lot of church activities around that people, you know, participated in. Choirs, union, and—

	R:	In churches? O:	Mm-hmm

	R:	Well, there was a different attitude in people in the earlier days as there is now and there were not as many churches but the one thing you could count on if you were, I would say, in most cases, if you were the child of a Black pair of mother and dad, on Sunday morning you were going to church. Whether you wanted to or not, you were going to church. You go into the bathroom and you scrub up and you go to church. But today it’s not like that. Children now don’t seem to have that, maybe, in them to do that. Why? I don’t know. I think it’s all in parenting, I really do. I think it’s the fact that, you’ve heard the expression the village to raise a child, that’s the way it used to be. Not like that now.

	O:	Certainly, the village was so close knit and tight. R:	Of course. Of course.

	O:	Others, you know, when they saw you going off the deep end [fumbles with something]—oh I’m sorry—they saw you going off the deep end then somebody else could tell you other than your parents.





	R:	Let me say this and let me be perfectly clear. When I was growing up, spanking was allowed. If you got off of the straight and narrow, you got a spanking. And boy those spanking cured a lot of ills. And if you got a really good spanking, it would be forever before you did that again. But now it’s not like that.

	O:	Did you get spankings?



	R:	Back in the old days? Yes, I think everyone did. But, not abuse. Just spankings.



What you might refer to as a slap on the wrist. But, you know, I can only remember once or twice that I needed a spanking. But when I was spanked, I did something wrong and I can assure you that after that part in my life I never did that again.

	O:	What about your dad’s construction company and all these homes that he built?



	R:	Now, it was not a construction company. He was a carpenter and he was a builder, but he didn’t have a company and such. He owned some property and on that property he would construct homes and houses and basically he would rent them out or sell them. But he was very handy in doing things like that and he made a darn good living. I think when I was about ten, fifteen years old, he owned quite a bit of land on 301 starting at Martin Luther King down to about seventeen—no not seventeen—well almost to 17th street. He owned quite a bit of land. He owned the east side.

	O:	How did he get the money up to own that land?



	R:	Well, he owned quite a bit of acreage in Georgia and when he left, he sold it all and that he didn’t sell he divided with other people in the family. But he came in and he purchased land and gold there. Where he purchased was so cheap. Cause it was the eastside of 301. And there was nothing over there. There were no





homes, no businesses, no anything, so he bought— O:  Was it wooded?

R:  Wooded. Wooded area. He bought it and that is where he lived for many many years until that section began to develop. But he remained there for most of his life.

O:  Did you tell me that he helped build the Wright Bush. The house for Wright Bush or not?

	R:	The Bush home? No, he did not. O:	Oh, okay.

	R:	Not to my knowledge. He may have but I don’t think so. O:	Okay.

	R:	I don’t think that was one of his projects. Now, I think Mr. Morelin might be able to tell you more about that but I don’t think so.

	O:	Okay. You were telling me earlier when we talked about the area where the dump is and how these kinds of properties were—this is where the Black community was located. And you all would actually go out there and find things in the dump and use them.

	R:	That is absolutely correct. And the dump was where what we call not a brown field area that just on the Eastside of 301 about a hundred yards in. That was the dump. That everyone—all of the garbage and there was no recycle and there was no this, you just went there and you dumped everything. And, I can remember seeing these cranes, or these little white birds, they would be there all the time. I would pass there sometimes and throw rocks in that direction just to fight them off.





So..



	O:	Wow



	R:	But that was the dump.



	O:	And it was around this area where some of the homes went up that your dad built.



Correct?



	R:	In this area?



	O:	Like around that—right on this side of the track



	R:	There were—wait a minute, there were one or two yes, on what is now Leonard Ridge. But the home that I can remember located west of 301 on the other side.

	O:	Okay



	R:	Because he had a room in a house right there on 301. And— O:	Did he build that?

	R:	Yes, he did. It’s gone. It used to be up. Mister Formals would rent tuxes and everything. He sold a lot to them, as he did on the corner there where the service station is, he sold out all of his property.

	O:	Wow. He just, he was an enterprising man.



	R:	Yes. I think he was. When I look back and it’s a funny thing, I think the older you get and you look back at how that older generation accomplished. You can say, yeah they were enterprising. They were much smaller than we are. Trust me because they had to survive, they knew how to do different things to survive. They could take a dollar or 10 dollars and feed us for a week. Now, we can take 100 dollars, we just barely can go 3 days. The one thing that I fondly remember, the fact that we raised cows, we raised hogs, we raised chicken.





	O:	In your backyard?



	R:	In the backyard. We had—that’s where we got our eggs. We had gardens and the gardens had fresh vegetables. It was nothing for us to go out and just pick out whatever we wanted that afternoon and wash it and cook it. So, it was a different generation, a different time.

	O:	How many brothers and sisters do you have?



	R:	Growing up, I have 1 sister but I was never, I was never really, really close with her and as we speak, Sharon, her name is Ethel, Ethel Munnings. But other than that, I’m an only child.

	O:	You were an only child? R:	Yes

	O:	That explains it [laughs]. Where did you go to college? I know you attended Booker High School and went on to college.

	R:	Well, you skipped something there. I went from Booker, to a little church sponsored private school in Cordele, Georgia and I was there for a couple three years. I left there and went to FAMU.

	O:	You didn’t like that school? R:	I graduated.

	O:	Okay. The school in Cordele. R:	Yeah I graduated

	O:	What were the years? R:	[deep sigh]

	O:	The grades I mean? The grades that you finished there before you went on to





FAMU



	R:	Well back in those days, in that little time you completed your education 11th grade.



So I came out a year early. I believe forty-five—forty-six, I’m just guessing now forty-seven. And after graduation, that’s where I applied for and attended. FAMU, in Tallahassee.

	O:	I’ve talked with some of the community members to know that you’re a very smart man.

	R:	Don’t believe them. O:	[laughs]

	R:	Just goes to show you sometimes bad information can spread fast. I think that— you know what I think? I think some people just believe that since I came out of high school at fifteen, I think that believe that when you accomplish something like that you gotta be smart. But that was not because I was smart. It was because I just made different grades here and there. I was a little more than average, but I certainly wouldn’t put myself at the top of the class.

	O:	So you must have studied regularly and did what your parents said do, did your homework and took the tests.

	R:	I’d like to throw in something here. My uncle, Lloyd Hazely, was principle of Booker High School. Now the first thing he would always make me do when I came in from school, I would have to read. I hated it and still hate it. I would have to read. And they would buy these little books for me to read and I would read them then I would have to explain to them what I read. And after all that, now you can go outside and play.





	O:	So first things first, you were taught priorities R:	Right. Right. Mm-hmm.

	O:	Tell me about your experiences at FAMU then.



	R:	Not much to say there. I started there at 15 and I was—I’m giving away information that I normally don’t give away, but I started there at fifteen and I came out before I could even apply for a teaching certificate. I crushed a couple years together and I was able to come out early. I came out before my 19th birthday.

	O:	Okay. You’re confirming some things Mr. Rainey that, you know you’re a good student.

	R:	Yes. I pride myself in always want to know, always wanting to learn, always wanting to know more and I’ve never wanted anyone--as selfish as this may sound--anyone in one of my classes to do more than I could do. So I would push, push, at a young age, I would just push, push to do better. And so many things contributed because–to me wanting to do that, I was given a mission that after school I would have things to do. See my uncle would sit down and he was principal, and he would write out my math problems. two or three pages, simple stuff, but I’d have to do it. And I couldn’t go outside until I finished all of that stuff. And my mom was the same way. She made absolutely sure that I finished my work and that my work was correct and if I didn’t, if it was not correct, I had to redo it.

	O:	What was your major?



	R:	Physical Ed and Science at FAMU. Physical Education and Science. When I went in, I just didn’t know what or what to major in so I took physical education ‘cause I





was in sports, I just wanted to play sports.



	O:	Now as I recall your story, somehow it was in New York that you found out about the postal exam.

	R:	Oh, you go into that one. Sure, that’s where it happened. I was, what I was in— that was in—oh boy, I can’t think of the year now. I was in New York and I was down, I think, it was 5th avenue or some place, and I saw this sign posted in the window that the postal exam was open. And that—come in, apply, take the exam, and there was a great possibility that you’d be hired and that’s what I did. And I asked them if they would transfer my score.

	O:	Transfer it to—



	R:	I’m trying to figure out, maybe I brought it down, but anyway, I was hired at the postal service in [19]62 or [19]63. One or the other. And that’s how I began my career at the post office and I was there for about thirty-six years, thirty-seven years.

	O:	That’s a long time. How did the community change in those thirty something years when you were in your career? Did you see a lot of changes in Newtown? Of course, you did.

	R:	Of course I did. That goes without saying. There were so many changes. The biggest change, I think, was that especially in this community, Blacks began to own things. Blacks began to build their own homes, get better jobs. Progress is very slow in certain areas and it was slow here, it doesn’t come overnight. And people began to realize, to own a home is more than just owning a home, it’s an investment. It’s an investment in your family. The fact that some people would say,





“Well owning a home is not an investment,” but they’re not thinking. Owning a home, possibly the best investment that you’ll ever make because that’s your nest. That is where, as a family, you’re gonna breed and nurture your children and children around your children. And when times are hard, and they find the world hard, they can always come back to the nest. That’s the investment. The fact that it helps not only the parents, its helps the kids, help the community. Ownership in a community is vital. You own your own home you got--not much power--but you’ve got a little power.

	O:	Mm-hmm. That’s a good point because— [Interruption]

	O:	Okay so you were talking about home ownership Mr. Rainey, that’s a good point because today, a lot of the property in Newtown I’m told is owned by absentee owners who are just maybe speculators who are renting now and people, many, may not own. And so that sense of community that you all felt might’ve been lost.

	R:	Mm-hmm. The lack of funds, the lack of financing in Black areas are gonna lead to the loss of homes, cars, and it’s gonna break up families, to a point. This is why many of the homes, and I see it every day, are speculators. They’ll come in to the community and they will buy up, for peanuts, buy up homes and refurbish and put them back on the market for rent. So a lot of people who did not want to lose their home, but were forced to lose them because of the lack of money, lack of financing. Just, for an example, on my street, I live on 25th street, 1600 block, only three houses that are owned outright. But when I was a kid, there were homes on every block. But now, there’s just three left because apartments come in and





replace the homes. What was once maybe one lot now someone comes in and buy two, three, lots. And through an apartment building now. Now people must have a place to live, I can understand that, but it also takes something away from the community because there is nothing more powerful than owning a home on a community. I don’t care whether you’re White or Black. That’s the most powerful thing that you can have or that you can own. It’s not the stocks that you have in your file cabinet. The most powerful thing that you can have in your possession is the deed to your home.

	O:	Okay, so yes and so this Newtown community is changing because of ownership of real estate.

	R:	Yes, now I’m not gonna say it’s a sad thing because, after all, people must have a place to stay. But I will say you’re losing ground, you’re in quicksand. When that happens, you may have had some of the Black families, White--any families in that area. If you had say twenty-five families, then ten years later you only got fifteen families. So you’re losing.

	O:	And also the number of businesses that you remember coming up, Black owned businesses, we don’t have those anymore.

	R:	You have a few, and they are struggling. They are struggling because how can they compare or compete with Winn-Dixie, Publix, Lowes? How can a little shop— I’m thinking about a friend of my dad’s, Henry Jones, who was a part-time mechanic--how can he compete with Mako and all of these little elf of these shelf that prepare, that got all the good equipment and everything and they charge even more. But the mom and pop stores that we know, are vanishing. Matter fact, I can





only think maybe one or two, but when I was a kid everything was mom and pop.



	O:	What is your vision for Newtown’s future? R:	For the future? What I would like to see? O:	Yes.

	R:	I would like to see, it depends–see, this is across the board. First off, you’ve got to have cooperation through the city. You can’t move unless the city gives the okay. And not only that, you’ve got to have investors to come in, not to buy out the property and throw a house, but to come in to help. To help struggling businesses, say look, and give them instructions, how do you ya know how do you keep books. What is a spreadsheet? How do you do these things? Can I count on you to help me through the hard times if I’m gonna own a business? But to build up the seller, you’re gonna have to have money and you’re gonna have to have help from the city. And you’re gonna have to have expert advice that’s gonna help you without gutting the place, without taking all the money out. See, money can be made, but not necessarily all the time and buying up the land and throwing in homes and houses and everything. Help us with the businesses. We had this one--we had several community organizations, the greater development in Newtown. Think Justin Grimes and a few others, Ed Kins, and they were all involved but after a while they can’t sustain them. They can’t sustain it because it requires money. It requires money and usually, and in a community, the least amount of money will be found in minority communities. That’s just the way it is—the pay scale is low, the work is hard and long, and so that’s just the way things are these days.

	O:	And what about a feeling of safety in the community when you were growing up





and coming through, building your career versus today. Compare that feeling of safety.

	R:	Ya know, I got no complaints. I think that, here, I was raised in this community and I can’t say that I ever felt unsafe. I think that there was a different attitude. I mean, we had some Black police [inaudible 35:06] but no one took advantage. There was no night sticks beaten upside the head—not, not when I was young. I used to walk for miles on 33rd street, over to the railroad track, the seaboard railroad track, all the way down to Main Street, in the dark. Go to what was called the Ritz Theater on Main Street and we sat upstairs—I think that was the Ritz, yeah—and after the movie, I go downstairs, I walk over to the railroad track, alone, and walk. Never, never had any sense of fear, I was the happiest young boy you could find, ‘cause I did not have that—any reason to fear anything. Oh wait a minute now, from time to time you’re gonna have little spats. But that’s children growing up. That’s ten, eleven, twelve-year-old kids, ya know, calling them other names and running home and talk with the parents, “look what he called me mom”. But fear, no, no I never experienced that. I never once experienced fear in Sarasota. Not growing up. Not growing up. I will say to this day that Sarasota, to me, is my home and it will always be my home. I could live—I would live here until, ya know, forever. It’s just a good little town. Great little town. The thing that took away from it when I was a kid I could go out to the beach on St. Armands.

	O:	Lido



	R:	On Lido, no further out in the Gulf of Mexico’s eye. And it was all sandspurs and ya know trees and stuff. And no complaints, the Blacks and the Whites, they swam





together. They went into–ya know, everything was fine, and you would get out the water, go put your clothes on and come home, but see, times change. People began to buy that land up and throw up beautiful homes.

	O:	Condominiums



	R:	Condos and everything. Now you can’t even walk nowhere near that property. So, that there is one change. Okay. There are some that’s changed we used to be able to. I used to love to fish. No place now.

	O:	Can’t find any places?



	R:	Unless you walk to the bridge. Something like that or one or two isolated areas around that you may go and fish but—Florida is a recreational state, you’re able to do anything here. You’re able to play golf, you’re able to play tennis, able to fish, basketball courts everywhere. And that is what makes this small community around us great. The fact, that we had it all and we still have it all. If we do not, if we don’t do anything more with our community, keep it the way it is. Keep it safe. And I’ve heard so many compliments from people that usually come and visit me. They compliment on how clean it is. “Oh we were all over here, over there, and THIS is the cleanest little town.” Well that makes me feel good. Now, was it easy to keep it clean? No. But you had certain organizations, certain people and that would help you to do that, and one was the city of Sarasota. You would appear before them, see the commission and complain about the “boo-boo” this and the “boo-boo” that. And we would complain about not picking up trash on time and sometime paper blowing up, and they would take care of it—they really did.

	O:	I gotta ask you one thing and then I’ll be done. You were talking a little bit about





the Easter Parade and helping to organize it. I’m sure there were other things but tell me about that Easter Parade and how that came about and how it made the community feel.

	R:	It was a source of pride; it still is for the community. Because that’s the one time for the community that we can get together, Blacks and Whites, and celebrate Easter. It came about with the four guys that I named. Because I didn’t start out with them right away. I came in like a year later after I saw what they were trying to do and I liked the premise. And the premise was, once again, to keep the kids occupied on the weekend. Or have an Easter egg hunt. Give out free eggs, give out Coke, give out everything for free. And we used to sponsor dances, the Barber’s Club, we would sponsor dances to raise the money to sponsor Easter.

	We had dances on Lido, up on 41, Holiday Inn, all around. O:	You had to get that money. Who were the four guys again?

	R:	The resident four. That would be the four that I named—except for me, I didn’t come in until a year later. But they’d be Bug…

	O:	Thomas



		R:	Bug Thomas. J.B. Lee, Jessen… O:		Who’s J.B. Lee?

	R:	J.B. Lee



	O:	Okay



	R:	Jessen Graham and Reid Harland. ‘Cause I think at the time it was really organized I think I was either, I forget, in the service or in school or something. But when I returned and I saw what they were doing I liked it and I joined.





	O:	There are going to have to be new leaders that emerge that take the mantle.



	R:	That is our hope, that is our… We’ve got to pass the mantle. Without new young people, it’s gonna die out. Young people are the source of everything. You gotta be trained, they’ve got to replace us as we pass on. But we have to make sure that they’re involved early so they can pick up all the tricks of the trade. They can run these organizations, and it’s just something that as a community we need to be doing. Now we need to do that as soon as possible because we’re losing all our young people. Our young people are being shut out in some cases. They quit school, they go to drugs, they’re incarcerated. That can be… I don’t know if it can be stopped…but you can cut down on the numbers. You can say “hey look, this is wrong. You should be doing this.” Because they want you to take over your job…

	O:	Somebody gotta take over the organizations.



	R:	Right. And that’s why we’re looking and there are some promising young people. O:	Who are they?

	R:	Oh I couldn’t name them all. I’d hate to identify a few. Because they gonna say, “Wait, well you didn’t call me.” But we do have promising young people in this community…

	O:	That are being groomed to lead! R:	And Bradenton.

	O:	Okay…



	R:	Because at times I think, I begin to believe at times that there is more than asked in Bradenton in the Black community. That we are right here in Sarasota. I see them, and I talk with them and they have more unity in the community. More





comradery. More working together and better health, here in Sarasota. And not knockin’ Sarasota, but they just seem to unite and have more to do with the community.

	O:	Alright, well Mr. Rainey, I thank you. We got two really good interviews to go on now and I appreciate your help.

	R:	That’s no problem. I’m glad I could help. If this is a help, I’m glad that I could help. O:	It’s incredibly helpful. Thank you.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ashley Brickhouse, January 30, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Heather Gonyeau, February 8, 2019 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 6, 2020