AAHP 094; Black; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 094 Richard Black

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht on August 7, 2010

31 minutes | 20 pages



Abstract: Richard Black participated in the Civil Rights Movement in South Florida (apparently in Palm Bay, Melbourne, or Homestead), and begins the interview describing what it was like to be on the picket lines and deal with harassment without responding violently. He also talks about current community dynamics in Miami and South Florida, and describes what the Black community and Black-owned businesses were like prior to integration. He and several interlocutors nearby also describe some of the juke joints that they remember. Mr. Black also describes how the Vietnam War impacted the Black community.





Keywords: [African American History; Miami-Dade County, Florida; Brevard County, Florida; Civil Rights Movement]













































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 094

Interviewee: Richard Black Interviewer: Anna Brodrecht Date: August 7, 2010



	AB:	I’m gonna make you hold this while you’re telling me your story. Please? Thank you. [Laughter]

	RB:	But, a lot of people of my age at the marches and stuff. Most people were picked, hand-picked. They could tolerate somebody spitting on them. Or they could tolerate somebody calling them names and I never could, never would. So, I never went to march. And a lot of the other guys that I knew, most of us were high school football players; they didn’t want us down there ‘cause it would’ve been bad. I mean, because nobody had the right to treat you like that. And, like, in Melbourne, like a lot of other places, we didn’t have as much as most places.

Because, I mean, you got a right to do something. And I can remember going to the movies and stuff and getting there early. We’d go walk around in the five and dime store. We weren’t going to buy anything. We just went there because it was cool, had air conditioning in there. You know, we didn’t have any air conditioning at home. And they would chase us and stuff, and we hadn’t done a thing. It was fun to us, but anytime you were done wrong, you don’t have to get somebody else to; you take care of yourself. But my wife, she was three or four years younger than me, and she was sharp and ambitious. She could tolerate that: the harassment, the spitting on and stuff. I never did and never would. So, they never let me march or picket. A lot of us didn’t. Because it would have been bad.

	AB:	So there were picket lines going on in your youth? RB:	Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.

	AB:	Who organized them?





	RB:	Well, the NAACP was a big organizer. You know, through the churches and ministers and stuff. It was a pipeline, and they were organizing with the churches, mostly. One church in the area would be the meeting place, and they would set up strategies for downtown like Leggett’s, or Coleman’s, or whatever it was; the drugstore. When you couldn’t sit at the counter, you marched outside. And you want to say anything, anything was done to you, don’t respond.

	AB:	And you knew that would be hard?



	RB:	Yeah. I wouldn’t have taken it. And a lot of people that wouldn’t. Just like today. That’s right. And a lot of them wouldn’t have been in there. Honestly. So, I never went.

	AB:	Was there ever a moment that you did retaliate? That something happened and you just couldn’t hold it back?

	RB:	Yeah. Once, we coming out of the movie. Me myself and a bunch of guys. We walking home, and at that time, you weren’t allowed to be more than three in a group. There’s four in a group, they’ll take you to jail. If there’s more than three in a group, you had to break up, and you had to have at least fifty feet between that three and the one, or the two, or three behind them. And we never abided by it. Walked. When the police came up and stuff—they had a bunch of other stuff to do, but when they come up and started talking, we just stopped and looked at them. Wouldn’t say anything. And I, for one, was hoping that they didn’t try to do anything to us, because a lot of those boys were really loaded—you know, knives and stuff. None of them have any records. Never stole anything. Couple of them in medicine now, pharmaceutical stuff. But, had things progressed, they wouldn’t





have been there, because they’d probably been killed, like she said. But, they wouldn’t’ve died alone. So, I was never a candidate: picketing and stuff like that. And I admire those guys today. All those people that died. I don’t care where they were; Florida, Mississippi. I mean, they were heroes. And still heroes. Because most people wouldn’t take it. So they were kind of hand-picked.

	U1:	Now, you were in the school system.



	RB:	I worked in the school system for nineteen years, and I’ve got out and started working for State Farm Insurance. I was an agent for twenty-three years.

	AB:	What year were you born?



	RB:	[19]44. So that was a good area. Good time to be born. AB:	And integration was supposed to happen in [19]52?

	RB:	In [19]52?



	AB:	But we know integration didn’t happen in Florida for a long time.



	RB:	It depends on what barometer you’re using. Most people use the school system.



And for my count, it was [19]67.



	U2:	Homestead, Florida. We didn’t integrate until [19]67. RB:	Yeah. Yeah.

	AB:	So what was it like going to a school even when you knew integration was supposed to be going on? But going to—you went to an all-Black school, I’m assuming?

	RB:	Yeah.



	AB:	All the way through high school? RB:	Yeah.





	AB:	So what was that like? What was the normal school day like?



	RB:	It was exciting. We had rules and regulations, and you had to abide by it. I mean, they didn’t tolerate a lot of foolishness that people tolerate now. I see a lot of young men walking around, we used to them, with their pants off the butt. We wouldn’t have tolerated that. I mean, you’d’ve been out of school, and your parents would beat your butt. My dad always told me, “I don’t care what you do, boy, but you better not embarrass this family.” And that’s the way it was. I mean, we had good teachers. Great teachers. They taught us educational stuff, as well as how to do things. How to respond to things. What to believe in reading and stuff. I would read—my junior year in school, three-quarters of our football team was on the honor roll. And you had to have your grades up to play ball. I mean, it’s not like now. You can do anything you want to do as long as you on the football team. Soon as you get your butt out of high school, you can’t go to college because you’re not knowledgeable enough. You haven’t been taught to do it. But they still take them into these schools. University of Florida, Tennessee, wherever. And they pad their grades—basket weaving, whatever—so they can stay their four years. Most of them leave in three because they’re going to the pros. See, those kids would have been taught how to manage their money, what to do. Kids today just come into—In any village, in any group of people, if you don’t keep the money in your community for a certain amount of time, then you will never advance. Because this country is based on money. Like most places.

And if you let it get out of the community real fast, you’re not benefitting from it. Like the Chinese. The money turns over in the Chinese community nine times





before it gets back to what I might call the big—larger community. They’re going to spend that money around. And they’re going to the man selling shoe strings, the one fixing tires, the one selling cars, and that was the only thing that kind of broke the back of Jim Crow. Was picketing, limiting their money. And, we were taught then in school; you could see it. But now, in our community, Black community, most everywhere; that’s why you see so many other nationalities infiltrating. They’ve got stores there, and they got—. And they don’t hire anybody from the community. But one old guy, usually. They hire him about six o’clock to kind of sweep up in the store and stuff. And to keep an eye out on who they think might rob them. And when they close the doors, they don’t live in the community. They go back, what we call, across the tracks, or across the creek. And they come back the next morning, and they’re just taking all the money out. And if that had happened when we were coming along, we wouldn’t have bought there. Or we’d’ve told them, “You got to hire somebody from this community. You got to sponsor some of these little leagues. You got to sponsor some of these reading groups. You got to sponsor.” And they would have done it, or else they wouldn’t have been in business.

	AB:	Right. So that’s an interesting difference today than in the past, is that businesses today are not very socially responsible.

	RB:	No.



	AB:	They don’t really give money to little leagues—



	RB:	They don’t have any pressure. They don’t have any pressure. But now, in the Hispanic community, mainly the Cuban community down in Miami; when they





came over here, I mean, the Mariel Boat Lift, when they unloaded all the jails with all the prisoners and said, “Get on the boat and go to America.” Those people came over here and they settled in Little Havana, in the Miami area. And they had Indians already in there with stores, and they went up to them and told them, “You can’t have a store in our community.” Ran them out. They just went about eight blocks over, set up in the Black community, and stayed there. And they’re taking the money out.

	AB:	And was that a good thing? A good infiltration or a bad infiltration? RB:	As far as what?

	AB:	As far as the mixing of cultures, and a new culture coming in. RB:	It depends on how you handle it.

	AB:	Was it handled well in Miami, do you think?



	RB:	I don’t think it was. No. I mean, the Cubans handled it well. Because they kicked them out, and I don’t mean just taking their job. Had they been willing to contribute to the Cuban community and everything, they could’ve stayed. And they kicked them out.

	AB:	So social organization is a key to— RB:	Oh, yeah.

	AB:	—successful communities— RB:	Exactly.

	AB:	Is people getting together. RB:	Right.





	AB:	And so, that’s something that happened, it sounds like something that, before integration, then there was a lot more community organization in the Black community.

	RB:	Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you had to be. You couldn’t go uptown and eat at a restaurant. You know, we had two shoe cobblers, in a little small town. We had a cleaner’s. We had a laundromats. We had beauticians. We had barbers, which we still got around. If you want to get the pulse of the Black community, of guys, you go to the barber shop, or you go to the beauty shop, and they’ll tell you.

Those guys are independent. Because nobody can hurt them. Because who’s going cut black hair?

	AB:	You have to have a specific— RB:	Exactly, yeah.

	AB:	Yeah, not just anybody can do it.



	RB:	And people want to get elected, they go by the barber shop. They want to get in good with the barber. The barbers will put all your information down there. I got a group that comes there and they filter it. If you don’t see your information up on this thing, it’s because the group has considered you or your candidacy as not productive for our community. And you tell them, “It’s not me, it’s the group.” They ride by there and don’t see it, they don’t come back.

	AB:	Does that go on today, as well?



	RB:	Yeah. Not to the extent it should be, but yeah. You let them know from the start, you know? You don’t have our best interests at heart.

	U1:	But, now, Pat grew up in Titusville.





	RB:	Titusville.



	U1:	She always stayed in Titusville. RB:	Yes, ma’am.

	U1:	But, a lot of people leave and then come back, now. RB:	Come back, right. And we don’t do that enough.

	U1:	But I was born in Titusville. RB:	Yeah, she was telling me.

	U1:	Although I grew up mostly in Orlando.



	AB:	Okay. And so what did you guys do for fun, before segregation, just as a normal day out? What did you do for fun?

	U1:	Oh we had fun. We’d go have dances, didn’t we? Had dances. AB:	Like, community-wide dances?

	U1:	Uh-huh. And they danced, not like now; when you go to a concert, you sit. But, boy, then, you danced. You got up and danced.

	AB:	What kind of music was it?



	U1:	And we were happy. We thought we were having a good time.



	RB:	Yeah. You probably’ve never heard the expression, “If you’re Black for a weekend, you’d never want to be White again.” Like, “TGIF?” That came from the Black community. “Thank God it’s Friday.” We always, you know, they’d always say that, our parents and them. Because on a weekend, they would let it all out. They weren’t as stressed. They let it all out. The police didn’t come out and bother with them, unless something happens to them. And it was just fun. Now the other thing that was successful in the Black community was the, what we





used to call them, jukes. Bars. They had a bunch of them. And on the weekend, in Melbourne, they go from one little bar to the next. You might go to the first and they put on these little hats, give you that to put on. So they’ll put it on you, then go to the next and they’re putting [inaudible 11:37] around the neck. The next one got beads. And they go around, and they’ve been around all of them. And those guys made money. It was profitable. And the money was kept—and they would help finance somebody’s home, or give you a loan to get out of debt. That money was kept in the community.

	U1:	And, see, those people we considered well off, because they were making money.

	RB:	They would always pay cash for their cars, homes, and everything else.



	AB:	And so, juke joints—because I’ve interviewed some people out in Hawthorne, it’s right down the road from here, and they talk about juke joints as if it was kind of an underground thing. Like, not everybody was welcome. Like, women shouldn’t go to juke joints, and things like that. But it sounds like in Melbourne it was different.

	RB:	It was different everywhere. You had to have women, or else the guys wouldn’t come! [Laughter] You know, it was a juke joint. Where you enjoyed the music. Just drinks, and have fun, let the stress off. And Monday morning, you ready to go to work.

	AB:	Back to work. Okay. So, there was almost two cultures going on: there was the weekday culture and the weekend culture.

	RB:	Yep.





	AB:	And the weekend was where you felt free. The weekday, you felt kind of enslaved to whatever job you were working.

	RB:	Exactly.



	AB:	So what happened to the juke joints on desegregation? RB:	In segregation?

	AB:	During desegregation.



	RB:	Well, they dried up, because they didn’t have any money. [Interruption 12:58- 13:50] But they dried up because, I mean—one in particular, White guy in Melbourne found out how much money was in the juke joints, so he opened up a nice one. When I came home from college my junior year at Christmas, a new club was open. It was fabulous. I hadn’t seen anything like that in Atlanta, in Cleveland, anywhere. It was fabulous.

	AB:	And you said this was a White guy that opened it?



	RB:	Yeah. He already had a juke uptown and stuff. He was just kind of getting started in his entrepreneurship. [Interruption14:21] So, he saw where the money was, he opened it up. And that was just at the crest of integration. Because he didn’t want them, Blacks, coming downtown because mixing with liquor, alcohol, and then females—Black and White—and he knew that was going to be explosive. So he built the best thing he could ever do right there in Melbourne. And then, the White people started coming to that one because they knew how nice it was and stuff, and then he couldn’t stop it, so he let it go. But it was tremendous. And all the other clubs around town, juke joints, they didn’t have the draw. So they weren’t





forced to go there. Had our cafes and stuff; you had to go to them. You know? Because you couldn’t go uptown.

	AB:	So what kind of music was in the juke joints? RB:	Blues.

	U1:	Everything. Some of everything.



	AB:	Was this B.B. King and that kind of stuff?



	RB:	B.B. King, all the old guys. Ray Charles. Sam Cooke. All the old guys. AB:	Can you dance to blues?

	RB:	Yeah.



	AB:	Just slow dancing?



	RB:	Well they got some fast blues. [Interruption 15:27] I mean, all of them, like James Brown? James Brown came from that era. That’s the kind of music they were doing dancing. I mean they wringing wet! You know, you got all your exercise and stuff—not that you needed any more, because you get it in the week—but you’d come out wringing wet.

	U1:	You know the bellhops were all White. They are now all White, but back then, when we were coming up, the bellhops were Black. They would meet the people at the curb and take their bags in. And the golf caddies were Black. But see, now they don’t, White people have taken that over.

	AB:	Now why is that? If those jobs are no longer available for Black people, where are Black people working today that they didn’t work in the past?

	RB:	Some of them are not working. Because there’s not enough other jobs to take up all those people. And that created the pressure.





	U1:	Hanging down on the corner.



	RB:	And now we got guys, our young guys, Black, got a lot of them, they into dope and everything else. But the thing is, the laws are not fair. Because those Black guys don’t have any boats, cigarette boats, and planes to go outside the country and bring it in. That’s brought in by the big guys that own oil companies, or big guys that own manufacturing plants, that fly it in and stuff, and got people to distribute it and put it on the street. These guys selling a little crack on the street, trying to make money, or selling marijuana and stuff; police come by, and they buy some from them and put them in jail. Okay, that’s fine. So then, go right on up the chain and get that boy downtown that is an attorney and making all the millions by having it flown in here. Get him, too! In history, they didn’t record our history in the books. And if you don’t have a history, I mean, you in bad shape.

And they deliberately didn’t write any history. And reparations, most people think that’s a bad word—White people, and some Black also, but they paid everybody else. They paid the Japanese five thousand dollars apiece. And it hadn’t been long. Nobody said anything. They paid the Jews, and Jews got paid from Germany and everyone else, plus Americans. I remember when I was a little kid, after World War, they had German prisoners working on Patrick Air Force Base, and when they’d break for lunch, they went into the cafeteria and ate. And the Black guys who were naturally-born Americans, working, they didn’t work with them or wherever they worked, they couldn’t go inside and they had to get up under a tree or something and eat their bag lunch.

	AB:	Where’s that?





	RB:	Right here in this country. And I was reading this book, The American Axis: Henry Ford and the other guy, I’ll think of his name in a minute, who made a nonstop flight from America to London; anyway, they were helping Hitler during the war. Henry Ford sold motor parts, and truck parts, and everything else to Hitler while he was fighting America. And the government knew it. Everything they’ve done—this is the government—is coming back to get them. Bin Laden was on the CIA payroll. Castro, Cuba, was on the CIA payroll. Batista, Lumumba, Saddam Hussein. All of them. All of them on the CIA payroll. Same thing is going to happen to Karzai. He was on the CIA payroll before they—we—went over there and got him elected as president. That was a false election. We did it so we could control him. And his brother is the cocaine kingpin of that country, and we know it. Bush knew it. They knew it. Nobody ever asked those questions of him. All that money, three transfer truckloads of money that got lost over there. I mean, American dollar bills, manufactured here; how you going to get that? He didn’t come over here and steal it! Didn’t no bank had it. So we sit and gave it to him. During the Desert Storm, the reason they jumped on that man, they gave him money to kill all those Iranians. If he hadn’t killed his own brothers, Iranians, they gave him poison gas to kill them with. They turned that same poison gas back on Americans when they went over there. And that’s why those guys are sick now. Because you blow up stuff and that gas hits you, you’re downwind, you never get over it.

	AB:	Did you ever fight in a war?



	RB:	No. I was drafted twice and I got off twice.





	AB:	What was that process like, being drafted?



	RB:	I didn’t experience it, really. They sent me a thing to come to Jacksonville for a examination. I did it. But when they were doing that I was in school. Then you got a deferment.

	AB:	In high school or college?



	RB:	College. I was already deferred; I don’t know why they drafted me. Anyway, they got rid of that. Next time they did it, I had to go to Jacksonville, I was teaching school. So there was a shortage on teachers, and I got out. [Interruption 20:47] But that’s what I did. I didn’t go. And back then it was fashionable to not go to war. Because it was for the wrong reasons, just like now. We’re going have to leave there, and once we leave they going go in and kill everybody that they think helped the United States. Same thing happened in Vietnam. I mean, helicopters going—

[Interruption 21:17-22:12]



	AB:	So how did you get, how does the draft process work? Do you get called? Or is it on TV? Or—

	RB:	No, they got a number. They send you a letter. AB:	Oh they send you a letter.

	RB:	And I was in school my junior year, and my mom told me that I had been drafted.



She opened and read it, and I was supposed to report to Jacksonville for a physical. So, I had to come home from Tennessee—

	U1:	You used to have to register.



	RB:	Yep. Eighteen you got to register.





	AB:	Okay. Yeah, we still do some of that.



	RB:	Yeah, you still do. And I came home and went up there, because if you miss it they’ll just come and take you right on. Because I asked a couple boys that dropped out of school, and one of them had been my roommate. He dropped out of school, and they drafted him within thirty days because he was out of school. And after he went through basic training, sixty days, he was on the helicopter getting ready to get dropped off where his unit was out in the jungle. He didn’t even get off the helicopter. He was shot in the head. And I just wasn’t going.

	AB:	What did that affect—having people from your community, from the Black community, die in Vietnam—how did that affect the community back home?

	RB:	I mean, it was devastating. For the ones that thought it was a futile war anyway. But it was just like anybody else; you die, you have funerals and stuff. But any day, you can get a letter. And it was scary. And I talked to a lot of guys that were over there, and they were telling me the fear they had. I mean, you’re in another country. And the people over there just had sticks, arrows, bow and arrows, spears, and they made enough of those things for traps, booby traps; or they would kill you and stuff, having snipers sitting in the tree. He might sit motionless for eight hours, and then he’s looking to pick off—he’d look for the rank first. The highest rank he’d see, he’d try to hit those. Start getting dark, he hadn’t made a kill, then he’d pick somebody. And then he’d shoot. But what they started doing to help with dissention among the ranks and among the troops, they didn’t really pay any homage to any Black Americans, but they had music. “GI, Black GI, this is not your fight. Go back to Alabama or Mississippi.” And that played on those





boys’ minds. Created a lot of racial stuff that they didn’t report. Also, they knew that if they just start shooting just White soldiers, that would create a lot of stuff, too. Now the one guy told me, he know three or four times that they let him live and shot the guys all around him.

AB:  So it was almost like Vietnam soldiers faced less discrimination overseas than they did at home.

	RB:	Yeah.



	AB:	Because their lives were spared at least overseas. RB:	Sometimes.

	AB:	And that’s got to have a huge impact on the psyche of the community, too, to know that—

[Interruption 24:53-25:05]



	RB:	But it was devastating. And I was glad I didn’t go. And I look now, same thing’s happening. Everybody that we talk about, we’ve had them on the payroll, paid them big bucks for nothing. And that Karzai, you watch and see. He’s going to turn just like all the rest of them turned. Within maybe another six months or something. He’ll say, “Look, do what you want, I’m not going be involved in it,” and he’s going leave and go to some other country. Castro’s Cuba, one good example. Batista was president and they had, like, gangsters here, the mafia and everything. They had money down there. Plantations they bought and stuff. And then, when Castro came along, Castro was an attorney in law school. He speaks English. But he won’t grace the United States by speaking it. And he would fool the United States, psyched them out, and he said, “Well look: if y’all will give me





some backing, I’ll get Batista out of here. And when we get him out of here, then you can raise your prices and stuff.” They said, “Oh, yeah!” They picked him up and a bunch more of his buddies and took them to Mexico. Trained them, gave them weapons and everything, and then was flying them back in to drop them in, parachutes, or bring them up in the harbor, to Bay of Pigs and stuff. But President Batista got word of it, and he got into his private plane and flew right down the coast of Florida up under the radar, and landed it in Daytona Beach. He had a home in Daytona Beach. So he was up there to land it, looking at TV, talking about they were going close in on him down there, and he was already up here. Castro got there the next morning. He told them, “Look, I’m communist.” “You can’t be communist!” He said, “I am, and all of y’all get out of here.” And he used Russia to back him. Because I remember when I went to college in [19]62, I left there in the last of July, and about the middle of August they had troop trains, and big army tanks, and planes, and everything else going to Miami. They would come down the Florida east coast. My sisters would tell me, that’s all you saw: long troop trains. And troops standing up on there with the rifles and stuff guarding it to go down. So, he told them—[Lightning interruption 27:13] Better come inside!

	AB:	So how available was international news to the Black community?



RB:  Just like it was to the White community. Any time there was stuff like that, they guard it. They don’t give you the right information. If you get some newspaper, probably, from Denmark, or some of those countries that are neutral, you get a different story of what they report.





	AB:	So [inaudible 27:45].



	RB:	I know it. We are killing so many innocent people over there in the war. It has always been, but they don’t report it. Anybody that report it, “No, that’s distorted, we got this from AP.”

	AB:	And I heard that there were Black newspapers before desegregation. Back in the day, there were Black newspapers and there were White newspapers.

	RB:	Exactly. And you look at them—



	U1:	We had a section in the paper that was Black news.



	RB:	“For the Coloreds” section. And they had the Pittsburgh Courier, that was one famous Black newspaper.

	AB:	What was it called?



	RB:	Pittsburgh Courier. And there were others. New York probably had them, wherever. They would put their own on, but it wasn’t like the big—same way it is now.

	AB:	And those were, the Black newspapers, to the Black community, were a little more trustworthy than the White ones, I’m assuming?

	RB:	Yeah. We thought so. AB:	But still had their biases? RB:	Yeah.

	AB:	Well I think the tier is coming to an end. Could you give me your name again? RB:	Richard Black.

	AB:	And you’re from?



	RB:	Palm Bay. Melbourne, Palm Bay.





	AB:	Okay, Melbourne, Palm Bay. I wasn’t sure where Palm Bay is, but I know where Melbourne is. And you were born in 19—?

	RB:	[19]44.



	AB:	[19]44, okay. [Interruption 28:57] Well if you’re okay with me putting this interview in the archive, is that all right?

	RB:	That’s fine.



	AB:	Can I get you to sign a little release form that says that we are allowed to put it in the archive? That would be awesome. Because I know you think your stories aren’t any different than anybody else’s, but everybody has got a unique story and they are all amazing.

	RB:	Yeah, but I guarantee you: you find ten million people with the same experience. [Laughter]

	AB:	I know, but those are the stories we want. Those are the stories we want to fill the archives because there’s people—I mean, like, my generation, for instance, doesn’t know what all happened. It’s just hearsay that we get from our White textbooks.

	RB:	See if they had been fair in printing history, you’d’ve known it. You could go read it.

	AB:	Right, I know. It’s just the way that the people, the last generation, handled that.



Clearly not the whole generation, but one half of that generation handled it in, that you write the White story. So now it’s time to put the Black stories in there, and that’s what we’re so excited about. So, anyway, if you’ll just sign the interviewee and the date, I’ll fill out all the rest.





	RB:	Let me read it [Inaudible 30:01]



AB:  It says that the University of Florida will have the rights to use it, but you will also have the rights to use it because it’s your story, obviously. We’ll burn you a copy and get it to you so you can use it any way you want to.

	[Interruption 30:16-30:41] RB:	What’s today’s date?

	AB:	The sixth? Seventh? I don’t know. RB:	Seventh, I think.

	AB:	Seventh. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. U1:	Seven, six. Is today the sixth?

	AB:	I think, yeah, the seventh? I don’t know, I lose track during the summers. Thank you.

	U1:	No, it wouldn’t be the seventh. AB:	Okay.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jeffrey Hartmann, September 6, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, September 27, 2017 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019