AAHP 533; Levy; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 533 Hazel Levy

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Anupa Kotipoyina on October 17, 2017

54 minutes | 28 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Hazel Levy goes into detail regarding her family and early childhood years which include early education as well as the racial dynamic in Milwaukee, Wisconsin compared to her earlier years in Michigan. Ms. Levy speaks about her impressions of the University of Florida when she first attended as well as the issues trying to become an undergraduate researcher for the College of Science. She also mentions how certain negative experiences had made her disconnected from the university and and then goes into detail about her graduate school experiences and beyond.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Black Alumni; Gainesville; University of Florida; Milwaukee; ]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 533

Interviewee: Hazel Levy Interviewer: Anupa Kotipoyina Date: October 17, 2017





	K:	Okay, good afternoon. This is Anupa Kotipoyina, the date is Tuesday, October 17, 2017, and I am here in Gainesville with Dr. Hazel Levy. If you could start by talking a little bit about — or telling us where and when you were born.

	L:	I was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin in 1972, and I was born into a family that was not super into academics or science. They were more workers. My family were coalminers, they were laborers, as well as sort of entrepreneurs, and my grandfather was in World War II. He basically opened the first kind of TV/radio shop in his town and was the first — his family were the first to have cars in their town. His family helped design the roads, and so they weren’t necessarily scientists, but they were always kind of creators of things. So my grandpa was a pretty strong influence on me, because he was the kind of guy that would, like, make tools that made tools; very into tools, very into machines. He was like a machinist, and so I was also influenced by him.

	K:	Did your mother work as well?



	L:	My mom is a nurse, and she’s retired now. But yeah, so that’s science-y in a way, it’s medical anyway, right? And yeah. She was very influential. She went back to college when she was thirty-years old. She was a single mom, she had my brother and me, raised us on her own without any help. She didn’t get child support from my father once they were divorced, and she went back to college and worked all the time, and got herself a degree and… it’s pretty impressive now that I look back on it. I don’t know how she did that.

	K:	So you grew up in Milwaukee?





	L:	I was born in Milwaukee, and when I was about three-years-old, my parents got divorced. And we moved to Marquette, Michigan, which is in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, way up north on Lake Superior, and that’s actually where my White family is from, where they immigrated from Austria and Finland to the upper peninsula of Michigan. My mom was White; moved us there near her family.

	K:	Okay, and so could you tell me a little bit about your early education?



	L:	Yeah, I mean the earliest education, when I was about three or four-years-old, I went to a very progressive nursery school where they taught us how to read when I was four-years-old. I actually have the same best friend that I met in nursery school. We’re still friends. It’s insane.

	K:	That’s amazing.



	L:	Yeah. And so by the time we got to kindergarten, we even remember, we were in advanced reading, and so we were always kind of like— I entered the school system advanced, advancedly placed, and kind of knew it as a child. And so it kind of raised my expectations for myself that I would always be in the advanced group.

	K:	Yeah, did you have an early interest in science? Or is that something that—



	L:	Science, not so much. I mean, what was I? I don’t even know if I had those kinds of interests. I don’t think so. I mean I took a physics class in high school that was really fun, but no. I was sort of discovered as a scientist. I mean I did a bachelor’s in microbiology and cell science, because I think at one point I wanted to be a doctor, but it wasn’t a well-thought-out thought. I think I thought that doctors were prestigious, and not poor. I was raised really poor, and I didn’t want to be poor.





And so I was like, “I’ll be a doctor,” you know? And so I chose a scientific route based on that, wanting that outcome. So I became interested in science in college through my matriculation within science.

	K:	Oh, okay.



	L:	Yeah, so it wasn’t like I was interested in science first. It was more a practical desire to have a career that I thought I could escape gender and racial discrimination by having a prestigious career.

	K:	Yeah. So in Michigan, was it a very diverse place? L:	No.

	K:	Or even Milwaukee?



	L:	Milwaukee was. So we actually lived in an integrated neighborhood in the [19]70s where there were Blacks and Whites living together, because my father was Black and my mother was White. And so we actually lived in a mixed neighborhood. Yeah, Milwaukee is still very diverse, actually, but the upper peninsula of Michigan, not so much. I mean I think in the town that we lived there, I think me, my brother, and one other family were the only Black people, and there were some Middle-Eastern descent — a family. So I think literally in a town, which Marquette, Michigan is not a big town, but I think when we grew up in that town there was probably like less than twenty not-White people there.

	K:	Oh wow, yeah.



	L:	And actually that’s not quite true at our school. But in other schools — let me paraphrase that — in our elementary and middle school there was that, but in the surrounding areas, there were lots of Native indigenous people. Chippewa





Indians are really strong in that area, and so there was kind of a different kind of racial demographic in the UP where the largest minorities were indigenous people.

	K:	Okay, so in elementary school, would you say that you grew up very conscious of race?

	L:	Not really.



	K:	Not really. Okay.



	L:	Not so much. In to some degrees it wasn’t a really prominent thing. I mean we got called the n-word and things like that growing up, but we kind of, in some ways, knew that the people that were calling us that were like stupid, or you know…we kind of knew that, sort of. And that that wasn’t popular up north where I was from. It was not outward. People would be embarrassed to— even if they were racist, they would never show it, because of Midwestern politeness. [Laughter] Midwestern politeness sort of protected us from outward racism, but when it came time for me to kind of like boys or date, and there weren’t anybody but White people, then race come up more in those situations. So as I got older, but I never really identified as a particular race. Just being mixed race I just didn’t even occur to me as a young person that that was some choice that I would need to make. It wasn’t until we moved to Florida in 1986 when I was brought into the Volusia County school system where the administrators, when my mom was registering me, asked her what race I was. And my mom said, “Oh, we don’t really do that.” And they said, “Well, we do. How many grandparents does she





have that are Black?” And they used one drop to categorize me as Black. And so, I identified with Black from that point on basically; State-determined.

	K:	So you finished high school in—



	L:	Deland. Yeah, I graduated seventeenth in my class of seven hundred students in Deland. Yeah.

	K:	And so did you like Florida?



	L:	No. Unh-uh. Nope. Florida was extremely segregated and extremely racist. And it was not only segregated by race. Deland, where I went to high school, it was also segregated, like you could tell — this was new for me — that the poor people were predominantly people of color as well. Whether it was like the Mexican migrant workers, or the African-Americans, and so that was something that was something that was sort of shocking to us, was that it wasn’t just racial segregation, but it was people were more poor if they weren’t White as well. So that was something that was strange and new. Obviously not so seemingly strange in my adult consciousness, but learning that as a child was weird.

	K:	So did you leave Florida to go to college?



L:  No, I came to. I was a poor kid always; single mom. I was raised on free school lunch, and so when it was time to go to college, the University of Florida offered me a significant scholarship, and I just came here.

	K:	So you said you were “found” as a scientist. Can you tell me kind of how that happened?

	L:	So I think of a scientist as not someone that takes science classes. I think of a scientist as someone that practices the art of science. When I was an





undergraduate, I tried to go around to labs and volunteer myself as an undergraduate researcher, but multiple labs denied me. And I had good grades, I was a working person, I had a job, I had a track record of employment, and so I always thought I was being excluded because of my gender and my race, to be honest. Because now I realize as a faculty, you don’t really turn down people. If people come to your lab, you say yes to them. So it’s weird that I had multiple faculty deny me. And so, I just went to class. And so, in my virology class, some student answered some question, and I guess I rebutted his answer, and the professor could tell that I thought the guy was sort of maybe stupid or wrong, but I addressed him in a way that was sort of diplomatic, but also kind of corrected the student in the class. And the professor who is Jim Maruniak, he’s still faculty in microbiology and cell science — this was in his virology class. He sort of kind of discovered me as an intellectual, and approached me to — when I graduated

— to take some post-bac credits and then apply to the graduate program in entomology, which I did. So he mentored me into graduate school.

	K:	I guess maybe could you talk a little bit more about how critical that mentorship was, like if maybe you would have been able to navigate graduate school without it?

	L:	I wouldn’t have even thought about graduate school. Having had such a bad experience in my undergraduate situation, I was actually — I had other things happen to me as an undergraduate when I was getting my — when I was going through Microbiology 1; that first core class. My major ended up being microbiology. I was actually sexually harassed by my professor in the class in





front of other students, and it was a spectacle and embarrassing, and I was very disenfranchised from the process. I ended up having to turn him in, because my grades were slipping, because he would sort of stand near the machine I had to use in the lab class, and I would refuse to go near it, and I was not able to actually participate in the class. So I ended up having to tell on him, which I did not really want to. And the chair of the department told me that I was probably misunderstanding him, because he was born in Europe, raised in Europe, or something like that, and probably I was just misunderstanding him. “He was probably just being friendly.” [Laughter]. And I was like, “no, actually I know when,” …these things I understand, at least. And their protocol at the time was that you would go — they told me, the chair of the department, told me that I had to go to that professor, meet with him alone, and discuss my grievances with that professor. And I think that was supposed to send me away. But I did it. I went to that faculty guy’s office, I talked to him about what he did and how it influenced me. I guess I allowed him to apologize, and I was put into someone else’s class. And he eventually was removed from his position because— and other students spoke out against him after that. So I was very disenfranchised from the academy. I was kind of lucky to get a bachelor’s degree after that experience, because I was like, “Science is not for me. It’s not a place for me, there’s not a path for me, there’s very thick resistance toward me, so whatever.” So when Jim Maruniak was like, “Well hey why don’t you be a graduate student in my lab?” I didn’t have any other alternative in mind. I was going to try to find a job. I didn’t even know what that meant at the time. I was a waitress, and I was thinking I





would just do that. And so, it was critical. It was life-changing that he invited me into his lab; that he had the power to do that.

	K:	Was that toward the end of your college career? L:	That was in my last semester.

	K:	Okay, wow. So could you tell me, I guess, a little bit about your PhD program that you eventually started?

	L:	So, well let me just say first I did a master’s of science with him. I got a master’s in entomology, and that was in the agriculture department, and that was a tough experience, because I had to work as well. I didn’t have a full stipend, and so I worked outside of my work there, and I finally, when I was writing my thesis, I got a scholarship, which allowed me to not work and to just focus on writing my thesis, my master’s thesis, which was great. And we were able to publish that work, and that I learned how to create a research plan, basically, and how to design experiments, how to have a hypothesis, and then even how to collaborate. Once I kind of established my project, I needed, like, field resources. I needed people out in the field that I could use my method on their work. And so I had to learn how to reach out and collaborate, which is a big part of being a scientist as well. And so that was one of the more important things I learned in that experience as well.

	K:	Did you continue to work with him during that period, or did you work with other scientists?

	L:	I was in Jim’s lab the whole time I got my master’s degree, but you have a committee when you — I don’t know if you’re in graduate school, but you have a





committee when you’re in graduate school. And so I had Jim Maruniak, and then I had a few other faculty on there as well including Phil Laipis, who was a faculty in biochemistry, and he was the next person to kind of step up and say, “Hey, once you graduate with your master’s why don’t you come work in my lab?” And I worked in his lab in the College of Medicine here in biochemistry, and we were in a group with Ken Burns, who at the time was the dean of the College of Medicine, and Phil Laipis suggested I apply to the PhD program — the interdisciplinary program — and I did, and I got accepted, and there was that.

Yeah. So I mean, mentorship has basically dictated the course of my career, I would say. I mean, I had to be smart and someone people wanted to be around, right? And interested in science, and with aptitude toward science, right? But, really, for me, the make or break was people in the power structure inviting me in.

	K:	Yeah. And so how long did you work—



	L:	I worked for Phil for about a year, and then when I got into graduate school, you do rotations before you pick a lab, and I did my first rotation in his lab where I sort of finished up my project, and eventually he wanted someone to work on animal models. He needed someone, and I wanted to be in his lab, and he wanted me to be in his lab, but because I was very not interested in doing science on animals [Laughter], which is interesting, because I now do, I decided not to go into his lab. And one of my later rotations I did with Mavis McKenna, who became my mentor, and I got very very interested in structural biology, and what viruses look





like in three dimensions, and I’m still interested in that, so. I went into her lab instead, because I was a little more interested in her methods.

	K:	Okay. So there was a recent study in which 62 percent of women of color with mentors cited lack of an influential mentor/sponsor as a barrier to advancement. Is that something you can speak to?

	L:	I do think so. I do. I mean I can see in my own experiences. The fact that Phil Laipis, for example, was in a group with Ken Burns who was the dean of the College of Medicine at the time, which I didn’t even know that. Like, I wouldn’t have known that — like to know who the high-level players are in an academic institution, that’s not something I ever thought of. I was told that if I work hard and study hard, that’s how you get advanced [Laughter]. I don’t think the people that were mentoring me as a kid knew anything about the power structure of the academy, right? And so, I don’t think it hurt that these people in higher positions knew who I was…Mavis now has a lot of political power in the system. I mean I was one of her very first graduate students, and she is a power house. I mean, you know she’s got more publications, more grants than anyone, I’m sure, in that department, ever probably [Laughter]. And so, by her sheer kind of rigor and her deep intellectual aptitude, she definitely has power in her department, which I don’t know how that helped me. I mean her connections helped me to get my post-doc and my next jobs. And now when I go out and interview for jobs or whatever, especially in the field that we’re in, gene therapy, the fact that her name is on my résumé is very important. I think it gets me in the door; she’s well- known in the gene therapy world. And so I’m an unknown, still.





	K:	So can you tell me, I guess walking through how you joined the UF faculty?



	L:	I did my post-doc at Harvard and that lasted for five years, and I met Jim Hogle through Mavis, because she brought me to a conference. And that was something that I think was really important that she did as a mentor. She made us go to lots of conferences. I wrote a lot of scholarship applications. I raised a ton of money for myself to travel while I was her graduate student. And in some of those travels I heard amazing science, and I met my next employer, right? So I was in Boston, working at Harvard for like five years, and at some point, the market crashed. There was the big market crash. My boyfriend who is now my husband lost his job and was unemployed for a long time, and we had some kind of financial hardship, and Boston is super expensive, and I was already at like, the five-year, four-and-a-half mark of my post-doc, so that was going to transition anyway. And the UF biology department was hiring for a developmental biology lecturer, and so I applied for that job knowing that we could live more cheaply here. At the time, my grandfather was alive. I wanted to be near him. He was here, and my husband got into the UF MBA program and was able to matriculate in that. So it was just kind of like a family/financial decision to make that move, plus an opening, plus I did end up getting that job. And so I negotiated for my position to instead be a lecturer, to be a visiting assistant professor, because I felt like my title should have the word ‘professor’ in it at that point. I don’t know.

And I did that for a few years; taught developmental biology and core biology to a thousand students a semester.





	K:	Yeah I’m sorry, I skipped over your post-doc experience, so could you tell me a little bit about that?

	L:	Yeah, so, Harvard was a pretty international place, and with kind of like vast resources. That was what was different for me at Harvard was that there was any kind of microscope you could want; there was any kind of research topic someone was deeply imbedded. It was, in my opinion, easier to get funding, because Harvard’s name is so…people don’t question you as much. When I was a Harvard post-doc giving talks at conferences, people trusted me more [Laughter] than they did when I wasn’t from Harvard, because it just—the name comes with a weird clout that I wasn’t aware of until I experienced it myself. Jim Hogle is a very race-conscious mentor, and he’s gender-conscious as well. He has a track record for basically creating pathways for women and women of color, people of color, that experience difficulties in the system otherwise, without expecting to be like ‘the good guy’ for it. He just sees it as his way of being a proper professor, and he was just a decent, good person with, like I said, genuine race and gender consciousness, and enough power to help people; and also trained good scientists. I mean, I learned really great science from him. I learned that writing a grant isn’t something that you dread. It’s a privilege to get to write grants for a living, and a matter of fact, if you’re writing a good grant, you should be pretty pumped and excited about what you’re writing. It helps you to formulate your project, formulate your plans, helps you to cut to the chase with what you want. And so I learned to have that positive attitude and energy toward grant writing from him. And as his post-doctoral mentee, I wrote a F-32 NIH application





to be a Kirschstein fellow. And I got that. I got that award, and my whole post-doc my salary was paid for by external funds that I had written for. And so I learned that from him. And what I learned too is that that freed up his resources to hire another person that we could collaborate with. It just was interesting, it made me realize that grant-writing was also job-making. And so that’s a really important, cool aspect of that that I learned from Jim Hogle, not to mention state-of-the-art science. I mean they were inventing methodologies, and they were creating ways of understanding virus structure at a higher level than I would have thought about if I had not been in that group. And so I was with a amazing team when I was in the Hogle lab of researchers. We basically worked as a group of four, and I was the expert with the samples and with the instrumentation, with collecting the data, and with getting the particles — the virus particles — to do what we wanted them to do; and I’m going to take high-resolution images. And then we had other people that were good at, experts at, doing the 3D reconstructions and then doing other structural analysis that allowed us to look at unique asymmetric positions on the capsid, which I know I’m getting into weird science now. And then I would finally get the data back, and I would tell the story in pictures how, what, the biology was of all this physics that we did. So we worked as a team. I kind of started with the stuff, and then I would kind of get to end with it and write my story on the papers where I was first author anyway. I learned about how to write papers collaboratively in a process. And so that kind of mentorship was pretty great. And when you have a process, I think obstacles are less daunting, because you kind of know how to get started.





	K:	Yeah, and so was there maybe more collaboration at Harvard than there was—



	L:	Yes. Significantly more collaboration. There was not any sort of proprietary response to sharing information. Yeah. Our group was highly collaborative, and we all shared in the fruits, basically. Everyone was on the papers. If you did equal work with someone else, you were co-first authors, and it was a great environment.

	K:	So was mentorship also critical to your transition into getting that post-doc as it had been in some other—

	L:	So how I got that post-doc — I met Jim at a meeting, and Mavis introduced me to him. That’s without a doubt.

	K:	Like a conference?



	L:	At a conference, exactly. But, the reason I even cared to meet him is because he was answering questions about virus structure that I was curious about. So I was just attracted by his science, because he was answering questions that I was posing. In my own work, I was posing these questions, he was answering them in his own models. And so for me it was like the obvious next step. And so I actually just on my own reached out to him and told him I was just interested in his work, and he invited me to the lab, and I came to the lab to talk to his student at the time, and him, and then I thought I was there just to talk about the science. Like I was just pumped on the science, but then he actually kind of proceeded to sort of interview me for a post-doc. And I was unprepared. I hadn’t given him my résumé. I didn’t give him a talk or anything like that. And he basically offered me a job right on the spot. And that was because we connected so strongly. He





didn’t get letters of recommendation; nothing like that. Okay. It was because we had a deeply intellectual conversation about what he was doing. I showed a genuine interest, I was naturally interested in what he was doing, and I think that he got a lot of good work out of me, because I actually cared about the projects. And I remember asking him, telling him, that I wanted his favorite project, because I wanted a lot of input from him, and a lot of push from him. I don’t know that he did give me his favorite project, but I remember thinking to myself that being pushed by your mentor isn’t a bad thing. It means that you’re getting a lot of their juice, right?

	K:	Yeah.



	L:	So I learned a long time ago to pick my mentors and ask them for what I need.



	K:	Well so you said he had — he was very gender and race conscious, do you think he was kind of like the exception or the rule?

	L:	At Harvard? I think he was exceptional in a way, because in the academy you are mostly asked to carry out what I call “the code of silence.” Like, you’re not really allowed to express how your path is different because you’re a woman. You’re not really allowed to express how your path is different because you’re black, or a person of color. Because the people in power aren’t experiencing any of that, that’s not interesting to me — to them rather — it’s not merit to them. And so, you can find yourself alienated if you discuss those kinds of things. And so having a mentor that kind of openly discussed such things with me was different.

	K:	Yeah. Yeah that’s what I was gonna ask how comfortable people in the field are with discussing race and gender issues?





	L:	I’ve been told all along not to. And not only that, but then now that I’m at the faculty level, I’ve been told not to talk about it until I have tenure, because your job is not secure until you have tenure. But as we know from this study, as far as

U.S. born African-American women researchers at the University of Florida, there are zero that have ever had tenure. So…

	K:	Yeah.



	L:	I’m not gonna wait for that.



	K:	So diversity training, like that kind of thing, is that not really something that’s done?

	L:	[Laughter]



	K:	Not that that’s like the way, but—



	L:	No, you know I — I don’t know. I mean I’ve been asked to go to women in science meetings. I’ve been invited to go to, and I sponsored trainings for minorities to get better at writing grants and get — but I never learned anything. I mean I know about racial discrimination and gender discrimination. I don’t really need any training in that, and I also know about how to write grants and how to write papers. I don’t need any training in that. What I think is missing is that the academy needs training. The power structure needs training. That’s what’s missing. I know how to write a grant.

	K:	Yeah, so that’s what I was saying. So there isn’t that kind of training for the power structure?

	L:	Not at all. No, I mean they would have to decide that they need it. K:	Yeah.





	L:	And that’s more work for them. Instead they give us work to do.



	K:	Yeah. So you said you were a lecturer and a visiting professor at UF? Cold you share anything that you might have learned from your teaching experiences and that might also benefit up-and-coming scientists?

	L:	So, I mean I taught at Harvard, and I taught at UF. I taught at Santa Fe College, and I taught at Bunker Hill Community College. So I’ve taught in a lot of places…is that it? I’ve taught graduate students. I’ve taught undergrads; all of that. And what I have noticed is that there’s more than one kind of student; more than one kind of student that excels. There’s students that excel because they are disciplined and interested. And then there are students that excel because they are competitive, right? People have different, like, drivers for why they excel. Some want to be better than the other guy, some people want to be their best themselves. And I find that the most nervous and upset ones are the competitive ones, and the ones that know that trying is internal are the ones that have the kind of natural discipline and the internal desire to do better. So that’s just kind of off the cuff. I feel like, as far as kids that do well, those are kind of the two branches that do well. I also find that students sometimes are trying to figure out what the minimum thing they need to do to do well, and having been a science professor always, I’m usually dealing with people who want to go to med school and be doctors. It frightens me sometimes when I have someone that wants to deal with healing and life and death, asking me what the minimum work they have to do to pass the class. It’s like, I really think you should know the whole book, to be honest. If you’re going to be a doctor, like, you should be reading this





for fun [Laughter]. Because you need to know everything in here to be a good doctor, so I don’t know, right? So I do think that students need to set up a schedule for themselves where they can actually get the most learning, as well as achieve the marks. I mean we can’t tell students it’s just about learning, and not about marks, because you don’t get into med school if you don’t have the marks, right? And so I would never really say that. I think in the long run, you do better if you understand the material, not if you’re good at regurgitating information for exams, right? I’ve never tried to teach students that they would only need in the moment. I always try to tailor my information into stuff they’re gonna need as they continue on. So yeah it’s like read everything, do all the homework, and don’t overdo your schedule. That’s what I think.

	K:	Yeah. So you started as a lecturer and then you transitioned into a research position at UF?

	L:	So all of the positions I’ve had, all the jobs I’ve had, up until that one, were all research. I was employed as a research assistant when I was getting my PhD. I was employed as a research fellow at Harvard when I was a post-doc. That’s a trainee job. And then I was hired as the visiting assistant professor, and that was supposed to be exclusively lecturing, but I negotiated to have some component to be research, although I was not given any research start-up funds. So I funded my research myself, which is insane. And I got papers out of that, and I submitted grants during that time as well, even though the Department of Biology did not fund any of my research. Until later, I did end up writing a small grant to the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, which gave me like, two thousand





dollars, and I used that money to train some undergraduates with Jim Maruniak on molecular biology. So that visiting assistant professorship was research and teaching.

K:   Okay.



	L:	And then here, I was first hired as an assistant scientist, which is a non-academic track. But then I, at one point, got hired at a company, and I had quit this job, and I was going to work at the company, and during that time a grant that I had written got funded. And so the chair of the department at the time said, “Do you want to stay?” Even though I had already quit. I was leaving. And so I basically proposed a start-up package to stay. The assistant research scientist, whatever I called it, research assistant scientist, that faculty position, was no teaching.

Although, while I was at that job, because the salary was so low, I was also an adjunct lecturer in biology, so I continued to teach in biology while I was at that job. So I was still teaching and doing research, and now my job is just here, and it’s just research.

	K:	You’re working in gene therapy? L:	Mm-hmm.

	K:	And so, I guess, we can move to the general observation section. Can you talk about any work-focused obstacles, or obstacles outside of the academy that women of color might face when pursuing a career in science?

	L:	Well, in my experience…I have a five-year-old daughter. And while I was on maternity leave from biology, my contract actually did not get renewed. So I was out on maternity leave, my contract didn’t get renewed, and I didn’t have a job.





And so I ended up going into industry for a couple of years. And so the correlation between having a kid and sort of being outside of the academy, happened for me. That happened for me. So it’s correlated. Whether I got not invited to come back as faculty because I had a kid, I don’t know. But it happened at the same time that I was on maternity leave, so I do know that. So that seems to me like the perception of whether or not you are going to be as invested in your work if you have a kid; could be an obstacle for you. Being the only Black person all the time everywhere you go is strange. It’s stressful. It is something that, like, is something I notice all the time. So I think there is kind of like a attention obstacle there. My attention is drawn away from my work a lot of times to kind of navigate through the racial disparities that I’m involved in. Trying to figure out when to have kids, I think for women, is probably tricky in the academy, because you’re expected to work all day every day all the time.

Outside of the home, women have a disproportionate amount of childcare work that they have to do. Not only that, but they also have a disproportionate amount of housework that they’re obligated to do: dishes, laundry, all that mess, in this country, is still obligated on to women. And that stuff takes up so much time. So once I got this job, I actually could afford to have someone clean my house and do my laundry for me for the first time in my life. And so, not that my husband hasn’t gotten better at doing his part, but he wasn’t raised with those being his responsibilities, and so it’s constant work on him to get him to do his fair share. So that kind of thing. I think that we forget that women outside of the academy still have gender-specific chores imposed on them all the time, whether it’s





around kids or around keeping up the house, these are these tasks that happen all the time. Not taking out the trash once a week, but the everyday stuff that has to happen; a hundred million little pairs of pants. My daughter is also a fashionista, and so she has so many clothes. And so laundry is — yes it seems like a small pile, but it’s like a hundred tiny little pairs of pants. It’s a lot of labor that takes a lot of time, and so a proper salary I think is important to free a woman from her home obligation labor, so that she can focus on her science if she’s in a heterosexual relationship with those kind of dynamics, which I think a lot of us are.

	K:	Yeah, and I mean childcare is very expensive, too. So you worked in Industry, so I was wondering if there was any difference in like, their family-friendliness or their background.

	L:	I had a lot of problems when I was in Industry, because — and this is a fairly personal story, but I’m going to share it, because I mean this is something that I think women are going to have to deal with. But I was nursing my daughter, and I was at work fifty hours a week, and so I had to pump. And Florida law basically says that I should be entitled to a space to do that, and my employer did not give me a space to do that. So I was relegated to the bathroom where people were doing bathroom things, and it was — I was treated like a troublemaker, because I questioned that. Because I pursued that. And then eventually I did temporarily get a room. I got shuttled from rooms to room that weren’t the bathroom. I nursed my daughter until she was eighteen months, which is my choice. Seems too long now when I look back on it, but that’s naturally what worked for she and I and my





family, and so it took me a lot of work, and a lot of hustle for my job not to dictate how long I nursed my kid in Industry. They felt very entitled to restrict me.

	K:	And so Black women make up 8 percent of the U.S. population, but less than 1 percent of the tenured faculty in the UF College of Medicine. How do you think the academy, and specifically the university, can better reinforce the pipeline for underrepresented people in academic research?

	L:	Well, I think training the power structure to be competent about the truth about what women and women of color, and people of color are facing as genuine obstacles. I feel like the power structure spends so much time trying to tell you that those things aren’t a problem, instead of training themselves to understand that yes these things are problematic and pose obstacles. So I see that as something that’s not been tried. I mean if we’re really concerned about creating this pipeline, then we have to maybe throw up some Hail Maries, because what we’re doing really isn’t working. And my first suggestion would be to educate the White elite power structure on the truth about obstacles for women and minorities to careers in academic science — that’s one thing — with some accountability.

The second thing that I see that seems to work…I mean my mentor, Mavis Agbandje-McKenna is Nigerian, I believe, or I think that’s how she identifies, and she has more Black women scientists in her lab than I’ve ever seen anywhere.

And me too. I’ve had my lab for five seconds, I have two Black women scientists training in my lab. And they come to us. We don’t like go out and search for Black women scientists. They come to us. They find us. And so I think having lab spaces that look like they are open to women of color is a tried and true proven





method to improve the pipeline. So having more Black women faculty with resources seems to be the only thing I’ve seen work so far. What doesn’t work is trying to convince our Black women scientists that they’re not good enough at writing grants, they’re not good enough at writing papers, they’re not good enough at science, and so, “we’re going to give you these extra chores to do so you can get better at those things.” That to me is discriminatory and not working. It’s not working, so we need to stop doing that.

	K:	I think I may have skipped a question where maybe in your career since you’ve graduated if you’ve ever personally experienced racism or sexism, if you feel comfortable talking about those experiences.

	L:	I’ve shared the sexual harassment thing, and I think for me, for me being a woman of color, being targeted for sexual harassment in such a public way, to where my classmates were like, “what is going on?” Asking me what’s going on. I think that I was a target because that professor saw me as Black and a woman and doubly vulnerable in the power structure. That’s what I think. It’s hard for me to separate gender and racial discrimination. They seem to come together for me. I think the fact that there are no African American women born from the U.S. that are in the research faculty at the College of Medicine, and that number, that 1 percent is actually for research faculty.

	K:	Oh, okay.



	L:	It makes it so that people perceive you as needing help. Or they perceive you as new, or an outsider. Right? Well, the truth is I’ve been affiliated with the University of Florida since 1990. Like there’s literally probably very few people





that are more insiders than me. Like I’m the most insider. Fuchs seems new to me. President Fuchs, you know? The Dean seems new to me. And so like, constantly having to prove that you’re an insider, and that you’re not an outsider. For example, wanting to do this project, I had to be convincing that I wanted to do this history to benefit the University of Florida. This isn’t to hurt the University of Florida, this is to benefit, to expose the true history of our school. It’s not an outsider trying to harm. So I think that there is a lot of perception of probably minorities more as being new and outsiders.

K:  Mm-hmm. Well yeah, I mean that brings to mind the Richard Spencer thing with the women or minorities are dispossessing White people. I was just wondering if you wanted to say anything about that since that’s coming up soon?

	L:	Well, I mean… for me, having a White supremacy rally on the University of Florida campus is problematic. And it’s problematic, because it shows a permissiveness of these genocidal ideas as being something we should debate anew. This country has beaten down and fought against and explained a hundred times why White supremacy is terrorism and dangerous. And so the fact that we are trying to create a platform for these guys to get to say these things, when they’ve been saying them forever, and we’ve just debunked all of their science, disproven all of their — we don’t really have to keep doing that. So to me, this kind of equating genocidal language and ideology with some kind of unpopular views is wild. To me it’s wild. And it’s also culturally incompetent.

Since President Fuchs thinks this language is despicable, that we almost think this language is despicable. But for me, I don’t find the language despicable, I





find it harmful to my life. I find it to be a danger to my life. If you’re not a target of White supremacy, you might just find the language repugnant. If you are a target of White supremacy — I’ve actually been a target of White supremacy before.

I’ve had people threaten me with automatic rifles, okay. If you’ve ever been a target of White supremacy, you know that what they’re talking about is killing you. So, I do see it as problematic, and as a disproportionate burden on our women and our Jewish members of our UF community, as well as our communities of color here, because this affects them in a more violent way.

	K:	So I think that’s all of my questions, but if you have — do you have any final thoughts about what researchers who are women of color may need to know, or even just your own life experiences or—

	L:	I think that we have to have more open dialogues about what it’s like to be Black and women in the academy. I think we have to talk about, we have to not be punished for talking about it. We have to be not told to wait until we have more power to talk about it. There has to be better infrastructure for supporting us to talk about it, for one thing. Secondly, I think that the leadership needs to begin to improve their own cultural and gender competency, and to show us that they know better. Show us what programs they have in place. Show us what they’ve learned, because putting all the burden on the women and the people of color is just a way to kind of get away with keep doing the same thing. It’s an inappropriate distribution of labor, actually. And so that’s what I think, and I do think we’re in a climate right now where these discourses are more open just naturally. And I don’t think people are going to go back, go back into the hole.





Even though things are completely messed up and politically nutty right now, I do think that, like, turning over all these stones are making people have to choose sides. And they’re like, “Hey, okay, if I keep quiet then I am protecting white supremacy. I see that now, and so now I’m ready to talk.” And I’ve had that experience in some cases already. One thing I want to add too is when growing up black and a woman, my family always told me I was going to have to work twice as hard, and I might need to expect half as much, right? And I misunderstood that for a long time. I thought that meant that I was going to have to read my physics book twice, and I’m going to have to — somehow it’s going to be harder for me to understand the material. But that wasn’t it at all. I actually understand material really well. I’m awesome at standardized tests; all that mess. What they meant was, I have to do racial labor and gender labor that’s not part of the merit structure. I have to do it anyway to survive, and I will never be merited for it. It will never be part of my tenure and promotion. It will never be part of how they determine my salary, but I will still have to do those labors, and it will still be obstacles to my success. And so having a discussion about what that means to be told to work twice as hard to possibly get, I mean, I don’t know any Black women anyway who have not heard that. You know, that’s something I guess we tell each other. Also, the driver for me to keep going is that I care about the science that I do. I love studying cancer. I believe that gene therapy could alleviate someone’s suffering and get rid of someone’s cancer, and I love training people in the lab. I love discovering things with young researchers, and that has not gotten old for me yet. And so, if you have a natural care and drive toward





science, then you can put up with all this bullshit, kind of, and still work your way through.

	K:	Well you talked about discovering what — working twice as hard and getting half as much means. When did you start to discover that?

	L:	I think at one point I realized that I understood the material just fine. I understand how to write a grant just fine. I understand how to write a paper and how to make science just fine. It’s not some mystery that someone has to show me five times because I’m Black. I get it the first time, so that’s not it at all. But yet I still have obstacles in my way that maybe my boss doesn’t have. And that’s the labor.

That’s the twice as much work. It’s that extra racial labor, the gender-based labor, the dealing with the isolation in the academy — the constantly having to prove that you’re not new, the constantly having to fight to get the same lab space, the same salary, the same resources that your White male counterparts get more easily. That’s the labor.

	K:	So your decision to do a little bit of research into this — was that there a specific moment that kind of inspired you, or was it something that was kind of—

	L:	I think it’s just something that evolved over time, and also in my dialogues with other Black women academicians, we — I keep hearing that, that this expectation that we’re gonna have to work more. And it sounds like we think it’s because we’re not smart enough. But it’s not that at all. We know we’re smart. We just have to learn how to navigate a system that wasn’t built for us.

	K:	Yeah. So I think that will conclude the interview. L:	Super!





	K:	Thank you.





	Transcribed by:	Holland Hall, February 7, 2018 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 18, 2020 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 20, 2020