AAHP-­490;; Henderson;; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 490 Warren Henderson Interviewed by Deidre Houchen on April 5, 2017

38 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Warren Henderson talks about being a farmer in North Central Florida. He grew up in Hawthorne, Florida. He comes from a long line of farmers. He also went to Lincoln High School. He went to FAMU and majored in soil sciences. He also move around after graduation to perfect his craft in soil sciences. Keywords: [African American History; Hawthorne, Florida; Newberry, Florida; Gainesville, Florida; FAMU; Lincoln High School: soil sciences major;]



Florida Standard:



	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws



AAHP-­490

Interviewee: Warren Henderson Interviewer: Deidre Houchen Date: April 5, 2017





	HO:	Good afternoon, this is Deidre Houchen. It is April 5, and I am at the Alachua County Public Library Main Branch with Mr. Warren Henderson having a discussion about Black Farmers in the north central Florida area. How are you doing, Mr. Henderson?

	HE:	I’m doing well, thank you.



	HO:	Good. Can you tell me your full name for the record? HE:	Okay, my full name is Warren G. Henderson Jr.

	HO:	Okay, thank you. What does the ‘G’ stand for? HE:	George.

	HO:	George. Okay. And where were you born? HE:	I was born in Hawthorne, Florida.

	HO:	Okay. What year were you born? HE:	1949.

	HO:	Okay, so did you go to Lincoln High School growing up? HE:	Yes I went to Lincoln High school in 1966.

	HO:	Okay. Okay. I’m not sure if you know but there was a big recognition by the school board from members of Lincoln high school just yesterday.

	HE:	Okay, well I missed that so-­-­



	HO:	Yes, okay. So you grew up in Hawthorne. Do you have brothers and sisters? HE:	I have but one brother and four sisters.

	HO:	Okay.







HE:

Yes.

HO:

Do they still live in this area here?

HE:

I have one sister that lives in Gainesville, and one in Ohio, one in South Florida,



one in South West Florida, so they’re scattered around.

HO:

Scattered. Can you tell me your parents’ names?

HE:

Well my father was actually Warren Sr.

HO:

Yes. [Laughter]

HE:

And my mother was Evelyn Henderson.

HO:

Okay, and were they from this area as well?

HE:

They were from the Hawthorne out in Newberry.

HO:

Did you say Allen?

HE:

Out in.

HO:

Okay. Out in Newberry.

HE:

Which is near Central.

HO:

Yes! Okay. Did they own land in that area?

HE:

Well, my father’s side of the family owned land in the Hawthorne area, and my



mother’s family up north basically working on land that was, what is it? Working



and renting properties.

HO:

Okay.

HE:

But they didn’t own their own property at that time.

HO:

But they both had some relationship to them. Sounds like land or—

HE:

Yes, my grandfather was basically a farmer.

HO:

Oh really?





	HE:	Yes. He raised his eight kids on farming pretty much. HO:	And was that also in—

	HE:	In Hawthorne.



	HO:	And what is his name?



	HE:	His name is Oscar Henderson.



	HO:	Oscar Henderson. What kind of crops did he—



	HE:	Well basically he grew crops, you know corn and beans, peas, sometimes he’d grow cabbage and vegetables, like greens and things of that nature.

	HO:	Did he have animals as well?



	HE:	Yes, they all had cows, hogs, chickens, because it was a standard, self-­ sustainable. The [Inaudible at 2:50]

	HO:	I spoke with another gentleman. His name was Mr. Nelson. He’s a citrus farmer, and San Mateo, and he’s from the Hawthorne area as well, and he’s a Black farmer as well. But he talked about farming in Hawthorne also. He comes from a farming community in Hawthorne, so I’m starting to think that Hawthorne might have—that might be just kind of how it was in Hawthorne at a certain point, that there were a lot of Blacks farming or having some relationship to agriculture in that area.

	HE:	Generally speaking, that’s what they were doing back in the [19]40s and [19]50s. HO:	Okay. So that was kind of the norm in that area.

	HE:	Right.



	HO:	Was that different in Gainesville?





	HE:	Well in the Gainesville area, a lot of people that were farming were west of town, and there weren’t that many farmland in the Gainesville area. It was basically out near Jonesville and Newberry, because the other areas were too wet to farm, so this is how they handle it west of town, so you had a—and also out in the [Inaudible at 4:03], there were farmers out there;; Mrs. Singleton in that area.

	HO:	Mrs. Singleton, okay. So from your expertise, I know you’re a soil scientist as well, so it sounds as though you have kind of two hands in this agriculture thing [Laughter].

	HE:	Well I majored in soils, but I also minored in gardening. HO:	Oh, okay.

	HE:	So this is the speed when I was in FAMU;; I had the best of two worlds. So I dealt with the soils, and also the agricultural part of it was growing;; crop science.

	HO:	What years were you at FAMU?



	HE:	I was at FAMU from 1966 until 1970.



	HO:	Okay. And you said you majored in soil science and minored in gardening, and how was that experience at FAM at that time? What can you tell me about it?

	HE:	Well it was a good experience, because it started out with me loving that work and doing things on the farm. So when I was in high school, we had vocational agriculture. It was mandatory, and so I took that, and my mentor was Mr. Andy George, was our teacher here at Lincoln. Fortunately for me, I did well in his class, and he recommended me for a small scholarship to FAMU. So I was going to FAMU, but he was able to acquire some funding to get me started. Even





though it was a small amount, back in those days it seemed like it was a lot to get started.

	HO:	Okay, and he was a teacher. HE:	Teacher at Lincoln.

	HO:	Vocational teacher at—?



	HE:	He was an agriculture teacher at Lincoln. And he’s still living. HO:	He is?

	HE:	Yes.



	HO:	Oh, I’d like to meet him.



	HE:	We had a class reunion last year, and he was there and as my ‘tor, he was my mentor, I spoke on his behalf at the reunion.

	HO:	How wonderful!



	HE:	So we had a lot of other teachers there from Lincoln.



	HO:	So I’m skipping to a few places if that’s okay. So when you were at Lincoln doing Ag, what land did you use?

	HE:	Well the school had land in the back. HO:	Right there on all the property?

	HE:	On the property.



	HO:	Of New Lincoln?



	HE:	Lincoln High school, yes. The property—we did plant propagation. We had some crops, chickens, and we had a hog—pigs out there on Kettle Road, out in Hawthorne, so back in the day the schools had some opportunities that built





them up, so. I think it was, a kind of, when it was desegregated, thing kind of just went down.

	HO:	We lost those opportunities.



	HE:	Yes. We lost the whole street. Used to have the [Inaudible at 6:51], cosmetology, artillery, and big bakery. We had all kinds of skills that were being taught there.

	HO:	Absolutely. Do you remember what you would do with your produce and your hogs? Was it an entrepreneurship program?

	HE:	No, teaching things so, but we did sell them. Some propagated plants, we’d sell them for clubs and things like that.

	HO:	Okay, okay.



	HE:	And then we would also raise money to go down to the state fair in Tampa, so that was part of the funding. It came from some of the things that we went to, you know, to the market;; all sorts of things. The chickens, we would have a banquet, so we would starve the chickens, and the chickens are…

	HO:	You had food! HE:	Yeah.

	HO:	That’s wonderful. Okay, so fast-­forward to FAM, I was asking you particularly about the agriculture program there, tell me more.

	HE:	Okay, well the Ag program there was really enlightening because when I went there, I had to decide a major, so being that I loved the outdoors and the soils, I decided to major in soils. So that’s why I didn’t embark on taking basic soils courses and exercise course that go over the soil-­science program, which also





helped me in humanities, which goes on with everything, you know, the Jone’s



	halls—the nightmare hall on FAMU’s campus. HO:	Was that liberal arts or was that the sciences?

	HE:	Sciences, sciences. And we had to take the chemistry’s and the physics, and the biological sciences. So it was the most difficult part of the whole program, but if you really put your mind to it you can do things well. But also, on campus, we had some well-­respected professors. Dr. Owens was one of my— he was one of my soils professor. Dr. Charles Coultas was another soils professor.

	HO:	Dr. Owens, do you remember his first name? HE:	Clarence.

	HO:	Okay, and where was he from? HE:	I’m not sure where he’s from.

	HO:	Okay.



	HE:	As far as his original home that he was at. He lived in Tallahassee a long time. HO:	Okay, and you said another name.

	HE:	Dr. Charles Coultas. He was a— HO:	Charles—can you spell?

	HE:	C-­O-­U-­L-­T-­A-­S.



	HO:	Okay. C-­O-­A…U-­L-­T-­A-­S. Okay.



	HE:	And those were the soils professors, and I had several others that were like class science people who Dr.—I mean Mr. Frank, he was on a PhD. But some of those names are slipping my mind. And Walter Johnson was one of my geology teachers. See, some of those names are coming back to me now. But they were





all very very interested in making sure that I learned and had some experience out in the open-­farm at FAMU during the time I was there;; making some extra money. We had to work, work for a program.

	HO:	Yes! Those are helpful.



	HE:	And so anyway, we embarked on those things, and during the first summer, well we started school on a traveler’s assistant back in those days. So we go in from April until—we started in August, and we get out in April. And so I got in a student training program in soils, so each summer I would go to New Mexico to work;; to get training. In summers, I was a student trainee in [Inaudible at 10:43], come back after three months, you know break from school, and I would come back and continue my education. So we started over in New Mexico to work.

	HO:	Where were you working in New Mexico?



	HE:	I was in Albuquerque in the summer of [19]67 and [19]68. Summer of [19]69 I was in a place called Las Vegas, New Mexico. Some of those was…I stayed upon graduation, I stayed in New Mexico and got drafted from that place. I was scheduled to the military. I thought about schooling and started work, so…but coming back, I had to do a lot in New Mexico, that’s what set me out in coming back from the military.

	HO:	Okay. So I’m wondering about, you know, there’s this big debate, supposedly, about agriculture versus liberal arts education, particularly for African Americans at higher education institutions. Are you familiar with what I’m talking about, whether or not Black folks should be working in the lands or they should be working with books, it’s the Do-­Boys and Booker T. Washington kind of split.





From what I studied about Lincoln, there didn’t seem to be any split at all. It seemed like both paths, any path, that would get people to move forward and have a stable job an career doing something they loved was what Black educators were pushing. On the ground it didn’t seem like people were pushing one over another. Did you encounter any of that at FAMU, any talk about Ag versus any—

	HE:	I did not experience it, but I do know that the Ag department was very small compared to other areas. And sometimes I think it came up to the point where a lot of them were young men. There weren’t many females in agriculture at that time. Not compared to what it is today, but it was a man’s—a young man’s field, basically speaking. And since a lot of the guys came up on a farm, some of them decided that they did not want to have anything to do with Ag anymore, so that’s why they ended up being such a small population of people wanted to major in Ag ‘cause they wanted to get away from what they’ve been doing for all of their life.

HO:  Do you think that—at this point where, I think it’s 1% of the farmers in the nation are Black farmers, do you think that we’ve lost because of that? Because of the relationship with agriculture, even going all the way back to slavery? That we’ve lost something in the Black community.

	HE:	I think what we’ve lost—what’s happening, I think, was a lot of older farmers had some kids, boys and girls, and one of the things that happened I think a lot of them didn’t want to stay on a farm, they wanted to go to a different kind of lifestyle, and I think that was really what prompted a lot of them to leave the farm,





and also a lot of farmers had land and as they got older they turned it over to their kids. The kids inherited it. We out there so the kids can afford to keep it, so therefore, all, by the way of taxes need to be, the land being taken by the state or county, and I think that’s the reality for a lot of places, even in Alachua county.

Taxes are so high, our kids decided—$50,000 for this land, but knowing that no one is going to buy land anywhere in the world, so they just sold the land. [Inaudible at 14:53].

	HO:	Right. Can you think of people who’ve been in that predicament even in the last five years? Ten years? Landowners, particularly, people who have air lands;; losing that land because of taxes, unable to keep it up, but who might want it to keep up that land?

	HE:	Well I’ve seen some. I don’t know [Inaudible] the area at that time. I feel sad for the families because I’m glad that they didn’t— sometimes in the 1800s or the 1900s, when the older people died off, the taxes want to cut up. And so for three years, Jesus, somebody would come around, speculators in California are females, in the world, and they do this every day for a living;; speculating. You got money, you make money. So they owned the land sometimes for a few years, turn it over, sell it, and make $200-­$300 profit.

	HO:	So the land—are you on generation land? HE:	Yes.

	HO:	You are.



	HE:	My grandfather used to tell my father, his daughters, and sons that, “I’m getting more land, so try to keep this in the family.” So we are guys—my great great





grandfather in the 1890s had a, if you look back at the deeds and stuff, had that land. It’s still in the family.

	HO:	Oh, that’s wonderful. How many acres if I may ask?



	HE:	Well basically speaking of all, probably around 75-­80 acres total in that area. It does have a lot of different areas.

	HO:	Okay, so that’s your family’s land. Is that the land that you and your daughter, Erica, farm on?

	HE:	Well, the far corner yes.



	HO:	Okay. So now I’m going to switch to asking you just about that farming operation. I was surprised when I talked with Erica and she said that it seemed kind of like she was the one who wanted to go into citrus farming?

	HE:	Yes.



HO: And pull her daddy along with her [Laughter]. Is that the case? But hearing your story it seems like there’s a long history of farming.

HE:  Well basically when I came back here in 1984, I didn’t do anything but plant small gardens in the backyard;; experimenting a little bit. I couldn’t make Dr. Jones from Chicago. Nothing but sour peanuts.

HO:  Really?!



	HE:	Yeah, so, that’s when I started experimenting, and started just growing small crops. And then I moved to the other side, you know, expanded a little bit, and so I started planting in the night. In reality, tilly’s tigers and peanuts per year minimum, but those green peanuts got through. A lot of them just peanuts for the green market and for porting. So subsequent to that, I went to places like Publix





and marketed peanuts. Winn Dixie, cash and carrier names that some stores around here, like Ward’s supermarket. Vendors on the side of the road because that’s the way I marketed. Eventually I started at the Farmers Market. I just had to walk a few miles selling peanuts. So I grew around peanuts. Football games, Gator football home games, about twenty years I did home game, I had a mobile license to sell peanuts, so that was my passion. And we also grew peas, and crops.

	HO:	So you were growing peanuts and other crops. I had no idea that you had a thriving peanut business before citrus.

	HE:	Yes.



	HO:	Okay. And then how many acres now do you all together have in agriculture? HE:	Well it’s sadly about three acres of basically land.

	HO:	Okay, but it’s a variety of citrus. HE:	Citrus.

	HO:	And peanuts.



	HE:	And peanuts, yeah. And other vegetables I could grow;; okra, corn sometimes. HO:	Do you bring okra and corn to markets, too?

	HE:	I bring okra and corn, yes. HO:	Okay.

	HE:	In fact, before I came here today, I was getting ready to plant okra. I hope I have something for the next seventy five days. .

	HO:	Okay. It’s going to be Okra time. HE:	Yes.





	HO:	[Laughter]. Yes it is. And you both enjoy it. HE:	Yes.

	HO:	Do you feel as though there’s any services that some kind of organization dedicated to helping Black farmers could help the U.S.?

	HE:	We’re relatively small, and self-­sustainable. So we’re not really looking for any kind of program to put us. If I was young, I’m almost 70 years—I’m 68, so therefore I’ve been retired now from my USD job for more than ten years.

	HO:	Okay.



	HE:	So what I do with Erica is just kind of a thing we like to do it together, so it’s kind of [Inaudible at 20:19] work.

	HO:	Yes. Okay, so you’ve worked for the USDA. You’ve been doing this for years.



You’re familiar with the older generation and probably the younger generation of African American farmers in this area. Do you see needs that farmers have that need to be attended to?

	HE:	Opening the marketing is the main thing, because sometimes farmers grow crops I don’t think they has got crop that they can do through their resources;; their crops in one central location where they can move them instead of having crop ready and not enough people to buy it. You see a lot of people—we go to the Farmers Market, and some farmers don’t have that desire. So if there’s some sort of crop that they don’t need, good for farmers that could go to one location and buy their produce.

	HO:	Good, yes. Okay.





	HE:	One thing that there is for us is there are programs in the USDA, rural development. You know about those programs, right? You can qualify for homes and things of that nature for small farmers. But Anne Bolt, I don’t know if you’ve met her, but she works for the USDA Outreach program.

	HO:	Is there any kind of Black farmers collaborative that you’re familiar with other than the one going on through FAM that you, your family, has ever been a part of in this area?

	HE:	No.



	HO:	No, okay. Your family—has your families combined land, then surveyed and measured?

	HE:	But all has stopped and searched spin off the general area, and has stopped in Florida, individually. So some of them is still together. Somebody’s been probated right now;; separated, things of that nature. But that’s what happens in families, normally in African American families. Sometimes you wind up with the older generation died off and got somebody to pardon our boundaries. Move on to what part, so.

	HO:	That’s one way that we know that land loss happens. So what we’re trying to figure out to what extent there are still those kinds of communities. Sounds like Hawthorne might be one area where there are community—number of African American families who might need to have that land surveyed, etcetera. That kindness is just to know.

	HE:	If there’s a sort of program that exists, because surveys not cheap. If you want to basically get your land, each individual, and if you have five kids and a family,





and there’s four acres between the five of them, should you just go ahead and “I’ll give you an acre. I’ll give you 3-­5 acres. This is yours.” And if you decide to sell it, everybody’s not tired of winning, because some people don’t want anything to do with the land anymore. “And if I can’t make any money out of it, then I’ll—well selling it costs me money,” not realizing the heritage.

	HO:	Yes!



	HE:	Yes. That’s a shame.



	HO:	That is the sad part, I guess.



	HE:	But it’s the reality if they cannot feed themselves, and if you have a tax bill—



$300—some $300 for the next ten years, that’s $30,000. So, somebody…you can’t buy it for $30,000.

	HO:	No, you can’t. Has anyone approached you to buy your family’s lands?



	HE:	Well a few years ago people tried to buy. Even my dad, George—put a [inaudible 24:39] factory. In fact, twenty years ago, he wanted to buy my dad, he was on the corner, and then off of him $1800 to buy his house, and five acres that his house was on. He said, “No, we’re not going to lose. Sell the land but what am I going to go through?” And then he offered a small amount, graduate—took advantage of if you go to that school. Corporations do sometimes.

	HO:	Yes, so you used to live in Hawthorne? HE:	I still do;; where rural Hawthorne is.

	HO:	Are there other families, farming families, out there around where you live now?



	HE:	Not very close to us. Some of them—not very close to me. Most of them are within three to four miles of me.





	HO:	Okay. Black farming families?



	HE:	Yes, I think of [Inaudible at 25:27] Nelson is one that is in Hawthorne. He doesn’t farm that much. He farms some.

	HO:	Might be a different Nelson than the one I’m at in San Mateo. Might be a kin! HE:	Might be a kin.

	HO:	Yeah, okay. So, Nelsons, and are there any other Black farming families in this region?

	HE:	Okay, down in Ocala there’s the Smiths. HO:	Okay.

	HE:	And over there right there near Spar, near to east and central.



	HO:	Near Spar, and can you—do you know what the Smiths, what their crop is? HE:	What, the Smith?

	HO:	Crops.



	HE:	Sylvester Smith grows all kinds. He grows greens, and peas, and potatoes, sweet potatoes, collards, all kinds of greens. Greens and peas basically, but sugar canes and things of that nature.

	HO:	Okay, and then you mentioned a family named Citra?



	HE:	Okay, now we have a Dewise John who basically grows a lot of watermelons. HO:	Okay. John Dewise.

	HE:	Yeah. Johnny Dewise.



	HO:	Okay. Does he bring in a market?



	HE:	No, he sells biscuits. He doesn’t bring any farm work up here. HO:	Okay.





	HE:	Alexander James, he used to be known as a farming citrarian



	HO:	Okay. How do you know these farmers?



	HE:	My method over the years is give them the greeting, if I had their number sometimes I start talking to them, get to know them. That’s my method.

	HO:	So outside of market, outside of the Saturday market and Wards, because I bet it’s pretty hard to get into Publix and—

	HE:	You can’t get into Publix anymore. Well, they stop after $9. A lot of these stores stopped back door sells to farmers—anybody.

	HO:	Wow.



	HE:	So no longer. Ward’s still buy from me, but Publix won’t. Winn Dixie won’t either.



But Hitchcock will.



	HO:	Okay. Where else can a farmer bring his crop to market? HE:	They have food in Jacksonville or in Tampa.

	HO:	So do a lot of people sell just stands on the side?



	HE:	A few sell on the side of the road, but in the county, unless you’re on your on property, you have to permits to do that. So sometimes you can’t just go and sell on the outside of the road just because you’ll be in violation of the county of wellness.

	HO:	Okay, so you have to have permits. So the mango man on Waldo, he has to have a permit?

	HE:	Supposed to. Or he bootlegs in the summer. The coast’s not working. HO:	Okay. [Laughter]. I’d hate to see us lose him.





	HE:	Well anyway, Mike probably come out in June, because mango season is from June to about the middle of July, so. So you’ll see Mike again, I’m sure. The best ones are on either Saturdays or Sundays.

	HO:	Yes. Yes it is. I first learned about him in your newsletter, and that we were on it.



Rodger and me.



	HE:	I love [Inaudible at 28:53] so.



	HO:	Yes, yes. So, you have to have a permit to sell on the side of the road. What about trading food;; is there any kind of barter system left within a community where you can go to a farmer’s house and get crops directly? Did those things still happen?

	HE:	I don’t see it happening like It used to be. The whole thing you—they sake on most of the trade. They used to trade long time ago on back, but if you’re trading chickens for something else, well they still use that trading into the market or into the store in town to fill your life with food.

	HO:	Wow! And it just became that food they mend.



	HE:	The order’s trades. [Inaudible at 29:42] and when they hear you said, “I’m going to trade the things that were trade.”

	HO:	That’s fantastic. I didn’t know that. So that’s basically died or dying out.



	HE:	Yes. But Erica does it at the Farmers Market. She’ll trade citrus for whatever they barter. You can afford to buy it, but if you got—buy oranges from some property, so there’s good deals.

	HO:	There you go! Yes, do you think there’s any way, any hope, of young people, high schoolers, getting back into agriculture? I was asked by a very prominent





member of the UF community, yesterday, this question: How can we get Blacks back into land?

	HE:	I think it’s going to be a difficult thing to do, in reality. Unless you had mandatory vocational Ag or something like that, where kids are really see the value of it, I don’t think it’s going to happen unless it’s mandatory. Now, I don’t think they’ll bring it back to the schools.

	HO:	Yeah, I hear you.



	HE:	But if there are some programs where, you know, they have a mentor, kids get them interested. Well if you start them in elementary school, really. And I used to do some volunteering at Lake Forest elementary school for the kids. You know help the teachers with gardens or [Inaudible at 31:11]. The elder, the people on your own, we said lay out. We used to do gardens and stuff for the Sub Twenty go. You know what that is?

	HO:	I do know. And I know that they have a garden over there.



	HE:	Kids, you really have to start out young to get them interested them in in growing their own food and showing them how to do it, and how not to use pesticides or riversides and grow stuff without poison. I think that’s one thing that’s—you can show them how beneficial and they decided, “This is a neat thing to do.” The insects control each other. Birds control insects, you know, food chains.

	HO:	Yes. Where did your parents shop? Where did you get food when you were a child?

	HE:	Hawthorne back in the [19]50s and [19]60s had small community stores, so we got some things in Hawthorne, but basically speaking, the food was cheaper at





places like [Inaudible at 32:23] the bigger chain stores. So there was a place called Sensors and there was—Gainesville didn’t have Publix back in those days, and there was another. Winn Dixie’s been around for a while, but they would go through the larger stores most times. But at least in Hawthorne they had options to buy from, and there were a few Black entrepreneurs who had their own stores going back from the [19]50s and [19]60s.

HO: Okay. A friend of mine, I mentioned Ellen Huntley, her father owned a grocery store in Palatka—big grocery store. I can’t remember the name of it. They’re a White family.

HE:  They might have had sisters or something.



	HO:	They might. I have to ask her. I sure will ask her when I talk with her today. What was your favorite subject in school?

	HE:	Basically speaking, a subject? Well, Ag fourth through sixth because that was my favorite.

	HO:	So agriculture was your favorite area.



	HE:	But I favored subjects, you know, class science. HO:	Okay. And that was in college?

	HE:	Yes, in college.



	HO:	Did you take courses in plant science in high school? Were those kinds of things held at Lincoln?

	HE:	Well, they visited us at the [Inaudible at 33:49] a lot, crop production, and propagating plants;; plant propagation, things of that nature.

	HO:	Okay. Mr. Henderson, I think you’ve answered all of my questions.





	HE:	Oh, really?



	HO:	Yes! [Laughter] That was quicker than I thought it would be, but I appreciate it. I appreciate your time. Are there any other suggestions or thought you have about Black farming in this area, or Black farmers we should speak to before I turn off the tape?

	HE:	Well, if you want to interview some others, I’ll give you some names to interview by phone, like Sylvester Smith. He’d be one that you love to interview if he agrees to it. But he doesn’t do spas and what. Only locale.

	HO:	Yes. And I think the only other question is: are you familiar with any younger, any



young people who are getting into this?



	HE:	That’s…I know one, my daughter. [Laughter] HO:	Yes. That’s who I thought of.

	HE:	She likes to grow things though. But as far as anybody else growing land, I don’t know of anybody, honestly.

	HO:	Yeah. Okay, well thank you.



	HE:	My nephews said that they not interested. I thought that I could teach them so much. The years I grew everything without irrigation, but now I have put in some irrigation, because it’s very difficult [Inaudible at 35:33] sun, dependable if you don’t have irrigations on it. When I grow sweet potatoes, I have the irrigation, and if I grow peas, I’ve got to have them rotate, because some of them have been there for thirty days, so you’re just going to have a failing crop. So we don’t out a whole lot, but we do enough that we keep up with it.

	HO:	Yes. Okay, I don’t know how you were growing without irrigation.





	HE:	But I did it. I did it based on rainfall. See, the reason I got no rain today, we had two inches of rain yesterday, and drowned them, saturated them, well done.

They can’t be till this afternoon. They’ll be drowning within five days, because mulch is there, otherwise a bag of flour. Yesterday it was the rain. But I couldn’t get it, but it was just been borrowing from—the port would run for hours and hours and hours, you know, the Stillwater, the way that natural rainwater does.

	HO:	I see.



	HE:	That’s why I couldn’t see them as they were washed in the ground. [Inaudible from 36:39 -­ 36:45]. It would drive me crazy for years, but that has changed now. When it’d rain I used to do…I had planted some when it rained. For years I looked at, “Okay when did it rain this month?” Opened up to last year. See, last year I had peas up, six inches high. But this year I’ve planned on planting them this afternoon. I was waiting for the rain, because I didn’t want to go on drifting. I think I walked two hundred yards on that road to put that tape down and go back, before us it’s a lot of work so when God sends the rain, we’re ready.

	HO:	[Laughter]. So, Imma let it wrap for just one more question. So the weather patterns have changed?

	HE:	You see, the weather patterns have changed as far as rain fall sometimes in the spring time?

	HO:	Yes.



	HE:	It used to, normally a lot of rain in March, but this year it was absolutely the driest March I’ve seen in a long time. First we had the late freeze in late March, too. So,





it’s not too good for who have had the crops the first week of March, because it



foams about the fifteenth.



	HO:	Yeah, you’re right. Alright, that’s it. Thank you so much. HE:	Okay.





[End of Interview]



Transcribed by

Jennifer Romero

May 30, 2019

Audit-­Edited by:

Sandra Romero

June 18, 2019

Final-­Edited by:

Sandra Romero

September 29, 2020