AAHP 659B; Jenkins; Page100







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 659B Whitfield Jenkins 5-20-2019 Interviewed by Joe Hartman on May 20, 2019 275 minutes | 104 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Joe Hartman sits down with Ocala elder Whitfield Jenkins for a follow-up interview concerning his life as a football player, military veteran, NAACP activist, and correctional officer. Jenkins recalls that he was born in Bethlehem, a small town outside of Ocala, Florida in 1940. He grew up on his father’s forty-acre farm and attended a two room all-Black schoolhouse in town. He recalls that his brother, now a pastor in Sarasota, Florida, was incarcerated at the Dozier School for Boys in Marianna, Florida after frequently running away from home. After attending the Fessenden School in Ocala, Jenkins attended Florida A&M University, where he played football. After finishing at FAMU, Jenkins was drafted into the military during the Vietnam War, where he served for two years as a military police officer. After his time in the service, he met his wife Lauretta. Jenkins then worked briefly at the newly-integrated Osceola High School teaching science and math. Later, Jenkins became one of the first African Americans to gain a high-ranking position in the Department of Corrections.





Keywords: [Ocala, Florida, Black community, Vietnam War, mass incarceration, justice department, corrections, correctional officer, football, Florida A&M University, veteran, NAACP, activist, Dozier School for Boys, Marianna Boys School]



AAHP 659B

Interviewee: Whitfield Jenkins Interviewer: Joe Hartman Date: May 20, 2019

	H:	Good morning. My name is Joe Hartman, I’m here today with Mr. Whitfield Jenkins in his home in Ocala, Florida. It is May 20, 2019, and we are here for a follow-up interview from a week ago to ask Mr. Jenkins about his early life and basically cover some things that we talked about last week. We had some audio problems, but we’re gonna go through those again. I have some follow-up questions. So let’s just start. Mr. Jenkins, could you please tell us your full name?

	J:	Good morning. Joe, my name is Whitfield Jenkins. I have no middle name. I was born and raised in a little, small rural town northwest of the city of Ocala approximately fifteen miles on State Highway 326. I was born September 19, 1940. My father’s name was Boss Jenkins, Sr. My mother’s name was Rosa Lee Adams Jenkins. I had five brothers, no sisters. I grew up on a forty-acre farm in that same area. My father purchased a farm in 1942 and so two years prior to that—

	H:	What was your birthdate again?



	J:	My birthday was September the 19th, 2940.



	H:	Okay, so you were born, actually, before he purchased that property?



	J:	Yes, two years before. We lived in another wooden house, approximately less than a mile from that house. We lived on—My dad worked for a White, large landowner, his name was Beacher Beck, and my daddy lived on property that he owned. My daddy actually bought the forty acres of land that the house we moved to was on, he bought that from Mr. Beacher Beck.

	H:	Was that a part of a tenant farmer agreement?





	J:	Yeah, it was kind of like he did work and now this is, remember, I was born there so I don’t remember the initial transaction, but I knew my dad worked for him.

And that he did not own the land that the first home was on, it was after that that he purchased forty acres of land from Mr. Beacher Beck, which was the second home, the home that I grew up in. I attended a two-room schoolhouse that was less than a half mile from my house. It also was on the location of Bethlehem Baptist Church, which still operates today in that location. As I said, I had four other brothers. My oldest brother, we had the same mother, he is now Reverend Ezel Patterson, he lives in Sarasota, Florida, he pastors a church in Sarasota that he’s been pastor since 1976 and he presently is pastor in that church. My next oldest brother, Boss Jenkins Jr., was two years older than me, and I was the middle brother in between those five boys. The brother that was younger than me was Daniel Jenkins and my baby brother was Charlie Jenkins.

	H:	So, all five brothers and your parents lived in this house together? J:	That’s correct.

	H:	And why don’t I ask you a little bit about your grandparents first and then we’ll come back to then. They were from Alachua; I think you told me.

	J:	My dad was born in 1881 in Alachua, Florida. My mother was born in the Bethlehem area, her maiden name is Adams, the Adams family is a very large family that still exists here in Marion County. But my dad informed me that his dad, Ed Jenkins, and his mother, Kizzie Jenkins, came to Alachua, Florida in a horse and wagon and they purchased land in Alachua, Florida, and that’s where my dad was born.





	H:	Did you know them as a child?



	J:	No, no. They had passed when I was born, my grandparents on my dad’s side.



	H:	Okay, so you don’t know a whole lot about their life in Alachua other than how they arrived there?

	J:	That’s true.



	H:	Okay, so let’s go back. You lived with your five brothers and your dad in this small cabin that you described before and actually showed a picture. Tell me what life was like in that cabin.

	J:	Well, it’s amazing today, look at things—There’s so much improvement in terms of life. But at that time, we had no electricity, no running water, no indoor toilets there in the small home that we had. The home was made out of pine wood, primarily, with a tin roof. It did not have a ceiling with any type of what you might call insulation. Matter of fact, we joked, me and my brothers and old friends, joke about how tough life was sometimes and we would say that the reason why some of us learned to read was that we had had the newspaper that would be up on the walls and the ceilings to keep out—from where the cracks were—to keep out drafts, and we would read the newspapers and we joked about that. And we talked about—Sometimes the tin roof would have holes from nails that came loose and so when it rained, sometimes water would drip through the roof into the home, and we had buckets strategically placed in the home sometimes to catch the water.

	H:	And what were the sleeping arrangements? There were six of you living in that house, how many rooms were there in the house?





	J:	It wasn’t much privacy. Once you left the front of the house where the stove and the heater, the entrance door coming in—We had a little small section, a kitchen to the right as you came in the door. And then what we would call a living room would be the next area, when you came in the door. And there was a partition as you moved south, and that was the bedrooms. There were two large bed that— And I don’t have much experience because my mother died in 1945 when I was five years old, so I don’t have much memory of my mother and the sharing of the bedrooms. I have quite a bit of memories of my father and all of the brothers.

	H:	Tell us about that.



	J:	So, usually one or two of the brothers would sleep in the bed with my father, and sometimes it was interchangeable. And the three other brothers—My oldest brother, he was not there in the latter years, so technically, that would make four brothers and my father. But, normally, back in the early days, there would be three brothers that would sleep in one of the beds and two would be in the bed with my father,

	H:	And I know there’s probably no such thing as a typical day, but tell me what a day in the life would be like. Say, maybe after you had started school, what would a typical day look like?

	J:	It started really before that. My daddy came from an era where basically his generation sometimes dropped out of school. My daddy informed me that he dropped out of school in second or third grade to go to work to help support his sisters because his father had died. And so, he was left there with his sisters and his brothers with his mother. So, my daddy had very, very strong expectations of





work. He basically start impressing that on us when we were in the age of five or six years old. There were instructions for you to go out, pick up some wood, bring some wood in, bring some water in, those kind of things. And my dad kind of taught us; he didn’t just leave it to us. He started teaching us real early somewhere in the five, six, and seven-year-old category, of how to do these things. How to get the water, how to get the wood. So, we had those—

	H:	Did you have a well, is that where you got the water?



	J:	At one time before we got a pump, we had a pump built—I can’t remember exactly the years. But, before that, there was a pump down at the school and the church area that was on the outside, so we used to transport water from the pump to the home.

	H:	And how would you transport it?



	J:	In buckets. We had what is called tin buckets, that was standard, they were purchased from hardware stores and sometimes they lasted a long time, sometimes they got bent up. What you tried not to do was do anything that would cause them to have holes in them because they would leak and that made it difficult for you to keep the water for a long time.

	H:	So you would carry buckets from the church then? You would go with empty buckets to the church?

J:  Yes and let me tell you a kind of interesting thing I remember. And I don’t know what it started. Before my mother passed away, my mother had a lot of hair on her head. Matter of fact, her hair flows down like that. And I remember, my





mother used to go to church before we had—we didn’t have the pump when my mother was alive.

	H:	Had no electricity is what you said, right?



	J:	And I had to be four or five years old to remember this, but my mother used to go down to the school-church area with three buckets, and these were buckets that hold probably two gallons of water. And she used to balance one of the buckets on her head and then have one in each arms. And so, she would go—going with the three buckets wasn’t a challenge. It was coming back with three buckets of water, one on her head, that she would come that entire distance without that bucket falling off of her head.

	H:	You have a visual image of her—



	J:	Yes, I do. And it’s very interesting because when I recognized that she passed away when I was five years old, I’m puzzled as to why that memory has stuck with me for all these years.

	H:	And so, you would gather wood, you would gather water, how about cooking?



You had a wood stove. Is that where you did the cooking then?



	J:	Yes, we had a wood stove, and as I said, when you came in the door of the house, it was to the right. It was a little section kinda built and partitioned off. And it had the traditional things that you would have, dishes, table, stove, and those kind of things, in that section. And so, it was usually, as I said, when you’re trying to determine the wood, oak wood, the pine wood was usually a prime wood that you would start the fire with. But then as soon as possible, you wanted the oak





wood or the hickory wood to continue long-term burning, because this would last a long time and the coals would heat up and last a long time.

	H:	And because you had no electricity, you obviously had no refrigerator. Describe some of the meals that you would eat for breakfast and dinner.

	J:	Yes, we usually ate eggs because my father had chickens on the yard. We had gardens and field crops. Just because of the economic situation, a lot of our food came from the growing of the food there on the property, because it was very costly to purchase meats and other things from the market, and my dad used to also butcher hogs. And so, a lot of the food products was grown right there at the house.

	H:	What did he do when he butchered hogs? Would he smoke those hogs or how would he preserve them?

	J:	Yes, he would carry them to—There was, in the area at the time, a number of places that—they call ‘em smokehouses—that would take meat like that and preserve it. And smoked meat, even without it being in any type of refrigeration, it would last for quite some time. But you mentioned about a refrigerator, we did not, in those years, did not have what is called an icebox or refrigerator. But basically, what they used to do, there was a commercial ice plant that was in the city of Ocala. And the ice plant actually had trucks that used to distribute ice to the rural areas, and they’d sell it to you. Twenty-five pounds, fifty pounds, block. Most of the time, people did not—the hundred-pound blocks was very critically sized so most of the time, what I recall the people in the rural areas, they would purchase the ice in the twenty-five pound blocks and the fifty pound blocks.





Some people did have boxes, that was before the boxes had refrigeration. They used to have the boxes and they’d put the ice in the box and it would stay there and last so many days. But people who didn’t have iceboxes, the way that they tried to preserve the ice and keep it from melting fast and sometimes putting fresh meats on it to preserve, they would dig holes and there was something called a croker-sack. They would take the ice and put it in a croker-sack and bury it underground.

	H:	Do you remember doing that?



	J:	I certainly—because we did not have an ice box, so it was the primary way we kept ice.

	H:	How typical was your house in terms of other houses in that area? Was that fairly common that there was no plumbing, no electricity?

	J:	There were other houses that did not have it. But I will tell you from my memory, our house was probably one of the lowest on the economic scale.

	H:	I wanna go back to a couple stories, I guess, before we get into the school. You told me some stories about things you and friends would do growing up. Let’s say it was during the summer or after school, what kind of activities were you involved in as a child?

	J:	Well, as I said, in probably a lot of the homes and the young people there were similar. Some had the advantages of having both their mothers and their father and having those persons provide for them food and water and clothing and other things. And then, there were groups of people in the community that had less. And so, we had the ability as young people to know each other from





association at the school that was there in the community, the one school. We all went to that school. The church was right there on that same property, most of us that went to church went to that same church. So, relationships formed beyond that. We would do things like hunt together, certain groups of us that loved to hunt. And we’d hunt. We did night hunting where we hunted racoons and ‘possums. We’d fish. Sometimes there was ponds in and around the area that had quite a bit of fish in ‘em, and so we fished those ponds. We had the outside basketball court was there at the school, so the boys sometimes would get together and come to that location, play basketball. We kind of carved out places on the different locations in the community where we’d play football and dodgeball and other kinds of things. And we got into mischievous things together during that time. I share to you the situation that I well remember where a group of boys in the community and my brothers, we were out just hunting, and we came upon a hog pen that was built where a person had built it in order to trap the hogs that had escaped and been out in the woods a long time. It was during that time, interestingly, they had a process for animals, cows, that are open- range, where a person’s cows—People would put bells on their cows. The cows would wander miles away from home, and so once those animals had to kind of go out and seek their cows and they would listen for bell sounds to determine whether that might be their cows. And so, a lot of animals was all over the place. There’s what you might call trespassing, that they on other people property. So, we—my brothers and these boys—came across this pen that had a hog in it and some of the guys came in the idea, “Let’s get this hog and sell it.” I was not in





that group making the decision, but they got the hog and they took it out of the pen and transported it. It was a good size hog, but these guys used to kind of muscle up and do what they do. And they got the hog and they took the hog to the market and actually the market allowed them to sell it, paid them for it. And obviously, the man who had built the pen, he came and saw the tracks and determined that, “Hey, some of these kids is coming around here and got my hog.” So, he communicated, I guess, with the—he was large enough about what prospects would happen with the hogs. So, any kind of way, law enforcement got involved. So, the sheriff officials came to my house, nobody was there, my dad wasn’t there, and they start questioning me about the hog. And basically, my response was that no, I didn’t have anything to do with it. But they took me down to—at that time, juveniles would be taken down to the jail.

	H:	This was in Ocala.



	J:	In Ocala. They would not put you in with adults, they’d put you in a cell or something if they gon’ keep you. So, they put me in the cell and later, my dad came down. And he and I, he was talking, he said to me, “Well, don’t say anything because it will implicate your brothers so just hold tight.”

	H:	So, you had told him the whole story? J:	Yes.

	H:	You had a private moment together and told him the whole story.



	J:	Yes, and no law enforcement people knew we’re talking. And, basically, what he was asking me to do was go ahead and take whatever came on behalf of my brothers, which I recall saying there about two days. I don’t remember the exact





date, but it looked like to me it was a weekend so maybe it look like to me it might’ve been a Friday that the sheriff took me down and on Monday I was released.

	H:	Tell me what it felt like, if you can remember, being in that jail and what kind of thoughts were going through your mind at that time.

	J:	It was scary at that time because that was the first time that I’d ever been in that situation and the uncertainty just was mind-boggling. It was kind of numbing. And also, I was hurt. I remember crying. At some point, I remember crying.

	H:	Did race come into those feelings at all at that time?



	J:	Not from me at that time, but my dad had begun kind of sensitizing and educating us about race matters. In those kinda situations, he would make statements about White people and it was obvious that he didn’t have any trouble for the system or White persons. But he warned us plenty about stay outta trouble. I can recall that was a constant. He didn’t want us doing anything. He was proud of us, and it was kind of—I’m able to reflect back on it now. He had these boys and he wanted the boys to be better, have a better life than he. You could kind of sense and look back on the kind of side goals that he put up to keep us going in the right direction. Work ethics was at the forefront of that. He did mention schooling, though he had been a second or third grade drop up, he frequently was, “Get up, y’all goin’ to school.” And that was a constant reminder. He didn’t allow us to sometimes play hooky or play sick from school. He kind of imposed his will on us in those kind of cases.





H:  You mentioned something when we were talking earlier about his statement after your arrest and incarceration, I guess, in the jail. Something about he’d rather kill you himself or something. Do you remember that quote again?

	J:	Yes. He repeated it over a long period of time in terms of—And in particular when we were young. Probably when we were ten, twelve, in that age group, it was a wanting about—You can imagine, we were living in a rural area and so he would be going to work sometimes, he would leave early to go to work, four and five o’clock in the morning sometimes not returning back until eight or nine o’clock at night. And so, we were unto ourselves. Our mother had passed away. So, there we were with a range of options, boys. And so, he had this mindset that boys would do things, mischievous and things like this. And so, we lived in an area, there were White farm owners in the community. There were temptations of stealing and doing other things. Sometimes they had orange trees. You know, fruit trees on their property. There was just so many temptations, and my dad was well aware of that. So, his response to us as a prerequisite before he would say, “Don’t y’all bother with the White people’s stuff,” and blah blah blah and blah blah blah. And sometimes, maybe, we had done something that he observed, and he would whip us. He had a thing about it was frequency. If one did something, everybody may have gotten a whipping.

	H:	And a whipping with what?



	J:	Well, there was all kinds of—back then they called it switches—but sometimes we called ‘em tree limbs ourselves. The ropes that he plowed horses with. Just a variety of things that you know, came to his mind that was available.





	H:	And so, you say even if it was just one brother, you might all get a whipping as a reminder not to do what the one brother did?

	J:	Yes. And many in the community had that same story that their parents had that, of sometimes, the older brothers, if the younger brothers did something, and then he felt that the older brother should have intervened himself, the older brother got a whipping as well. And so he had this statement, when he was beating me sometimes—I mean really going at it—he’d say, “I’ll kill you before the White people kill you.” And I told you about that term that he used for the buffer key, and it was a term that I don’t hear anybody—I haven’t heard anyone else use that term except my dad. But that was a warning from him. “I would rather kill you than the buffer.” And I think what was paining him in thinking about when he used that term is that my dad had actually witnessed a thing very close to lynching, seen some lynching. And there was some history where White people lynched children. My daddy was aware of that.

	H:	In that neighborhood or in Alachua or just in general?



	J:	Well, he basically—Not there. I don’t remember him speaking of lynching there in that period, but he talked about going in the woods and finding bodies hanging up in Alachua area and other areas that he had been in across the state.

	H:	And you remember him telling those stories? J:	Oh, yeah.

	H:	How old would you have been when you heard those stories?



	J:	I could’ve been nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen. H:	So, that gave you the context of why he was talking about—





	J:	Yes.



	H:	That he was essentially telling you when he was whipping you that a lot worse things could happen to you?

	J:	Yes. And remember, things were happening and while we don’t have the social media today, the way news would—You had major news. The Emmett Till story. That happened in Mississippi. That happened, you know, in this time period. So, you had these incidents, maybe not local in Ocala and Bethlehem and Zuber at the time, but you had these incidents of these lynching of young Blacks. And the Groveland boys, you know, the case of the Groveland boys. You had these things happening, and my dad was well aware of that in his era. Matter of fact, he even told me—He say he had a brother that was killed by White people and placed on a railroad track.

	H:	He told you that story when you were young as well? J:	Yes.

	H:	Did he tell you anything more about that?



	J:	He didn’t really go into it or repeat it. I don’t know whether it was something that had him really balled up on the inside or what the facts were.

	H:	That would’ve been a brother that also grew up in Alachua then?



	J:	Yes, it would’ve been. All of his brothers and sisters were born in Alachua.



	H:	Okay, so you were well aware either directly or indirectly through stories from your father of the kind of things that could happen, and he would remind you of those things?





	J:	Yes. And you had other people in the community my dad’s age that some of them were relatives and some of them were people that we got to know through their children that also had their experience and sometimes we would be in settings where they would be talking and sharing that. So, it was a combination of exposure to people that we would get a lot of information about what was going on. What had gone on in particular on race matters.

	H:	You said earlier about the role of the church and how it was central not only for the water, where you would go and draw water, but the people in the community—Describe community life or I guess the term that’s frequently used is life in the village or “It takes a village.” Describe what that was like in your community.

	J:	Well, I’m about able to now because I’ve done so much research and reading and attended so much on Black history and the path I chose, the activist term. I now can look back and see things more clearly as it relates to the structure of the community and how communities form separate from other communities.

Because if you kind of look at—Really, we were Bethlehem. The Bethlehem Community centered around mostly the church, because the schoolchildren from other communities came to that school. We had the children from Zuber. Zuber is a separate community east of Bethlehem probably extending—When the two boundaries meet, Zuber extended probably another four or five miles east. And some of those children came to Bethlehem school from Zuber. But Zuber had their own church. Bethlehem had its church. And so, when I say Bethlehem, I’m looking at a circular of Black people that lived, attended the same church,





associated in many ways with each other on farming and other things in the actions that they did. And it was almost like a circle.

	H:	I think you had mentioned earlier when I was talking to you about providing transportation, for example, to the hospital or into Ocala for those folks that had transportation.

	J:	Yes.



	H:	What was your sense of community growing up? I know you said your dad was hardly ever at home, did you feel like you had other folks that were kind of watching over your family as friends, as community members?

	J:	Yes, we had relatives. My mother family is from that area and surrounding areas, a very large family on my mother’s side. Some of her relatives extended to all those communities. Some were in Blitchton, some were in Zuber, some were in another community called Cotton Plant. And some was in the city of Ocala. But out there where I lived, I had aunts and uncles that lived within three and four miles. Okay, so we had those relationships. Now, not all of them was the same in terms of the attention we got or support we got. And we had people that were not relatives, sometimes, that probably under certain circumstances you got attention and support because of some extenuating dynamics that happened. But I could say that there was a sense in the community of kind of looking out for each other.

	H:	And you felt that as a child?



	J:	Yes, yeah, yeah. I remember, as I said, not everyone had car transportation.



Interesting, if I go back and kind of really accurately identify—So, the ones that did not have car transportation, you develop a relationship with certain people





who did have transportation and tried to have options available based upon need. If you need to come to the city to purchase groceries and other apparels and things like that, you kind of plan it. Families would plan as much as they could to make sure that that planning was in congruency with the person who you would be asking for transportation. There were people who made it known that they would do that for you for pay. There were some that was just goodhearted, and they wouldn’t charge you anything because you needed to do it. They would come forward. Now, if a person had medical needs, you know, sometimes that came abruptly. You didn’t have no advance warning. So, if that happened, you hoped that you had built up a network. Because during that time, virtually nobody in my early years that I know had telephones. Okay, so that form of communication was out. So how did you? If you need to communicate with someone, you virtually had to physically get to that location, walk to that location or ride to that location to communicate.

	H:	You mentioned your mother died when you were five. Do you remember that situation at all or just in retrospect?

	J:	Yes, I remember. And that’s kind of like the other memory that I have of her carrying the can of water on her head. I remember and I can’t put my age exactly with it but my mother had breast cancer, first in one of her breasts. And I remember the bleeding that used to come through her clothes. And sometimes, I did not know at that time that pain was associated with it, but I remember sometimes she would kind of go and throw herself on the bed. And then I





remember they amputated that breast and then she developed cancer in the other breast. And I remember the bleeding and her agony through that.

	H:	And this was through the hospital in Ocala? J:	Not at the hospital, at the house.

	H:	The amputation was at the house?



	J:	Well, no. Yeah, they had to come into Ocala to amputate. H:	So, she got transportation to Ocala to go to the hospital.

	J:	Yes. But I don’t remember that. And I remember the second breast when they amputated, and at that time, the adults wouldn’t share with the children everything that was going on, but obviously, the doctors had made some determination that my dad was aware, and God knows who else there in the community was aware that what we have now is real early diagnosis of terminal cancer. I didn’t have no knowledge of that during that period of time. I just saw my mother going through those with no knowledge. But here’s what did happen, my dad obviously knew. And he took all of us. There was a man out there that stayed, Marvin Brawshaw, the Brawshaw family is up in the fellowship. And Mr. Marvin Brawshaw carried all of us boys up to my dad’s brother. He had some brother the same that was older than him, had the name that I had. His name was Whit Jenkins, and he had a farm in Alachua, Florida. So, my dad obviously knew that my mother was going to pass, and he didn’t want us there, so he took us up there and left us with Uncle Whit. And when it was all over, we stayed up there probably some weeks and when we came back, my mother had passed.

They had had the funeral, and everything was over.





	H:	Was she buried in a cemetery by the church?



	J:	Yes, the family cemetery is right out there right now. It’s interesting, my mother— there was no tombstone. I cannot go out there now and find my mother’s grave, but I know the general area she was buried in in the cemetery. All of my dad and my brothers up there are together with Marcus, side by side.

	H:	And this is a family cemetery, not a church cemetery? J:	It is the church.

	H:	Oh, it is the church.



	J:	A lot of families out there in the church because it’s been there for a long time.



H:  How unusual was it to have a single-parent family led by a father? Did you know anybody else in that circumstance or were most families two parents?

J:  Here’s what was different: A lot of families, when they had someone that passed away, sometimes the other partner would remarry someone. And that happened. But in this case, my dad never remarried. Now, he had some companions that he picked up, but he never brought them in the house where we were. That was the difference. And then the other thing was a father raising a family. I mean, usually, that situation is the children would be with a mother as opposed to a father.

	H:	And because your father worked so many long hours, even though he represented and taught you a lot of lessons, he was not there a lot during the daytime, and you were on your own?

	J:	Right, that’s true. And we hear lots today as the research persons has done a lot of work on this kind of circumstances with families and what are the effects on the children and outcomes and so today, we are very prepared. But if you kind of





go back and look at this in the context of how our society was, how Black people, generally, as a group of people, live in American society and how White people live. You had this uniqueness of what we call today—You hear people say proudly today, “Continuing the struggle.” And if you analyze that, it simply means that for Black people, it’s been a tough road to hoe. And that generally applies in a broad way to a lot of folks, even some that today have been blessed to move beyond their early circumstance and is now living at a different standard, you go back into the [19]40s and the [19]30s and the [19]20s and even the [19]50s, it’s like a night and day. And so, my dad was a—as I said earlier—my dad was a tough person. But one thing that I think if all my brothers, even the ones that passed, was here and they were sharing in this, they would say that there was something about his toughness, but we felt he loved us. There was a bond between us. I don’t know all the factors of manhood or how that played out, but my dad had many attributes. Sometimes he drank a lot, and that had some negative consequences. But he just had so many other qualities that I don’t know how he overcame with so many challenges. Second, third grade education and all the other negative things—

	H:	Could he read and write?



	J:	Could not read and write but could count money. Do those kinds of things that you supposed to do in terms of like an education, and then could count money and do other things very well. But interesting, and it’s always been something that’s on my mind is my dad used to tell me frequently about making twenty-five and fifty cents a day at a point in his work life. Twenty-five and fifty cents a day.





When we became a part of his work team, what he did, a major thing that he did was cutting crossties, the ties that are used on railroads. Cut them and hue them out in the form of shape, block form. That’s what he did for a great portion, he was doing primarily that and the farming. And I remember that for all that work, hewing on the crosstie, cutting the tree down, limbing it up, then using—He had two axes, he had a club axe and a broad axe. The club axe was the typical axe that we see today, that most people use. The broad axe had a blade on it about maybe fourteen inches and it was very smooth on one side and very sharp. And it was designed to hew out that tie. Hew the bark off the tie into a smooth section that you see if you look at railroad ties today, that’s the way, when my dad finished with a tie, that’s pretty much the way it would come out of the woods to be carried to the location.

	H:	So, he would cut and hew the ties right there, cut ‘em to length and everything? J:	Yes, and they had a process, because most of the time, it would be in very thick hammock land, and in order for them to be hauled away, they had to get them to

a clearing location. And so, you had a truck that was gon’ come there and probably take—If they were working into a particular area, let’s say they were working in an area for three weeks cutting and hewing. Because a lot of times, it was a group of men, not just one person that was doing that. Let’s say that over a period of time, they got a hundred of those ties. Sometimes they had a horse that goes down—they called it snaking, snaking the ties out. They would have a horse and they had a mechanism, a single tree, the horse would have collars and everything and they would have a chain they would hook to the tie, wrap the





chain around, and then snake the tie out to the clearing where the truck was gonna pick it up. But my dad would get—I remember for doing all that work on one tie, he would get something like a dollar and fifty cents for a tie.

	H:	And how long would it take him, quite a while?



	J:	Yes. I remember—and my dad was an endurance person too. That was another thing, we talk about athletes getting in shape, those men used to get in shape doing physical—using those club axes and broad axes, using their muscles. And they kind of took a pride in being able to endure a long time. Sometimes if he got eight or nine ties in a day, that was a super thing. Most of the time, he would get four or five. And then they knew, since they was getting paid by the tie, they could sometimes knock off. They came out, unless they had something else to do the rest of the day, they might do two or three ties and then knock off for that day and go do what they were going to do.

	H:	And did you ever watch him do that? Were you ever on site?



	J:	My brothers and I, when we got old enough to where we could be the biggest help that we could be to him since the axe—We never got to the point of doing what he did with those axes. But using a crosscut saw, we could saw the trees out and then limb up. You know, you saw your pine trees were predominately the trees that they used for the railroad ties. So a big part of that was cut the tree down, limb it up, get all of the limbs. Because there’s a certain section of the tree that can be used. When you get up to the smaller part and where the limbs were, that’s not appropriate because the crossties had to be the same measurements. So when you cut the tree down, you could go to a point to the top where you’d





say, “Okay, this is as far as you can go in using that portion.” So our job as boys would be using a crosscut saw—that’s where someone is on—

	H:	Two man saw, mmhm.



	J:	Two man saw. Saw the tree down. They had what is called wedges, because some of the trees are pretty good size and there’s a still wedge that you didn’t want. Because if the tree has got an angle, remember the way it’s tilting. If it’s not straight up, and even if it is straight up, and you start cutting, after a period of time, the tree have a tendency to lean towards the side that’s no longer supported by something. So, if you’re not skilled at this, the tree would bind on the saw. You could not move it. So, to keep that from happening after you got into the tree, you would start using a steel wedge behind your cutting so that the tree could not bind the saw. The other thing you had to be careful about— dangerous work—was if there are limbs that’s rotten high up in the tree, and you get to a point where the tree start moving, those limbs will break off and they come down. You didn’t have safety helmets and these things, so a number of people have gotten killed with the limbs coming down form the trees. The other thing is, when you cut the tree down and the tree really begin to fall, it has a tendency, if you cut all the way through, to kick off the stump. And if you wasn’t aware of this person in there, you could get injured or killed that way too. It was a dangerous kind of incident. Today you’ve got so many industries in the corporate world. You’ve got what is called OSHA, they come in after they determine that you’ve had so many risk situations that they have rules and everything. But during that time, there was no OSHA guidelines.





	H:	Your dad would say, “Be careful,” and tell you as best he could what to watch out for.

	J:	Yes.



	H:	And you did. So, when you went out and helped your dad, whether it was farming or it was cutting down trees for him to make railroad ties, was this only in the summer or I’ve heard of folks leaving school to go out and help their parents just like your dad at third grade left for work completely. When would you go and help?

	J:	Twelve months a year. H:	Twelve months a year.

	J:	Twelve months a year. You would bundle up in clothes in the wintertime as need to be and you do everything that you did in the summer.

	H:	So, sometimes this would be after school then or would you actually leave school on certain days?

J:  No, certain days school was not—It was certain days my dad determined we didn’t go to school. And back during that time—It’d be interesting, how many days out of the school year I missed because of work. But I would tell you, it could’ve been easy I could’ve missed thirty days out of a school year.

H:  And a school year was approximately nine months? Same as it is— J:  Yes.

	H:	But of those nine months, you might miss up to thirty [days] strictly because your out helping your dad either with the crops or with the logging.





	J:	Yes. And you can imagine, as we got bigger and could be more productive, you can imagine seeing him based upon economic need kinda putting out schedules to help him either on the farm—there’s a lot of plowing to do. The crops he was planting, he had forty acres of land and he probably was planting twenty-five of those acres in carious crops: okra, squash, beans, even watermelons.

	H:	And this was to sell? This thirty acres was not just for the family then? J:	Yes.

	H:	And so, when you picked those crops, what would happen then? What would he do with the crops?

	J:	Take ‘em to the market. H:	The market being where?

	J:	They had produce markets at different locations, up in Lowell there was a silence that’s still operating there on Highway 301, 441, north of Ocala. He used to purchase okra, peanuts, even watermelons. There was another market, I remember, at Lowell.

	H:	And how would he get those crops to the market?



	J:	There would be trucks, persons in the community, that would have in most cases trucks and even sometimes they used—If you were picking peanuts, sometimes if you didn’t have a truck sometimes the vehicles would have trunks, and you’d load as many in the trunk.

	H:	This is, again, the community helping each other, taking crops to the market. J:	Yes.





	H:	Okay, and when you took those to the market, what determined the price that you were gonna get for those crops?

	J:	It was the market owner, and you never knew. I think most of us know that it was situations where the person who had the market always could make the decisions in terms of what they gave to you in their favor. So, if you didn’t have an honest person, you were at their mercy. The person was usually at the mercy of the person who owned the market.

	H:	And they would offer whatever they would offer and your dad’s choice would be either take it—

	J:	Take it or leave it. Now, sometimes they would check multiple markets. Those that really had the time to make sure they got a better price over here. Sometime they would do that. But sometimes a person who didn’t have transportation to do all of that, it was pretty much for you, a person would give you a price take it or leave it. You couldn’t make a determination whether you could use the product any other way, eat it. Sometimes I heard my daddy say, “I’d rather throw it away than give it away.” I heard him say that and sometimes he made that choice if he didn’t think that he was—If he thought he was getting robbed, he would just make a choice that I’m not gonna give it away.

	H:	I suspect, knowing a little bit about you and your success in life, the fact that he would stand up for himself in those situations is where you got some of that same strength and determination yourself.

	J:	I certainly, easily admit that. I think my dad really engrained in us a degree of toughness mentally. Decision making, hardship, how to endure hardship. He had





his own way. I don’t think he intentionally was doing it, it was his way and I think it really found its way into me and my brothers in so many different ways. I think it was supplemented—my own personal situation—was supplemented by some other positive experiences I had with people who came into my life, teachers and other people who came into my life who had a different way of conveying to me that it was important that I conduct myself a certain way. And I think in some cases, it intermingled with my daddy’s way of the same—They were looking for the same outcome. They wanted me to be successful and they had different ways that they imprinted that upon me.

	H:	And it sounds like though even though he may not have been thinking it, of standing up for himself at the market by turning down whatever was offered, maybe he was primarily thinking of standing up for himself but, indirectly, he served as a role model for you and your bothers to do likewise. And perhaps by example he taught you the same lessons that perhaps others taught you in conversation or in mentorship.

	J:	Yes.



	H:	Okay, let’s talk a little bit about your school. You mentioned a two-room schoolhouse there in Bethlehem. Describe that school and when you started and your experiences there.

	J:	Okay. Yeah, I remember the earliest teacher was an elderly Black lady named Mrs. Streeder. The last name is Mrs. Streeder, I forget her first name. I remember her when I first went to school there, and I remember, in my mind’s





eye she was strict in kinda getting on you about taking, being out of your seat when you’re not supposed to and those kinda things.

	H:	And this was a two-room schoolhouse, so this would’ve been, what? First through third grade then?

	J:	No, it was first through sixth grade.



	H:	So it was a two-room schoolhouse for first through twelfth at that time, I guess.



	J:	No, no, no. Twelfth grade not there at this school. At that time, there was only one school for Blacks in that county. Public schools was Howard High School.

	H:	So you meant two rooms for first through sixth, so it would’ve been separated, one room for first through third and one for—

	J:	Yes, yes.



H:  That’s what I meant. So, Mrs. Streeder was then your first teacher for first through third grade.

J:  That I remember. But usually, what I remember is that they’ve always had two teachers at the school at the same time. I remember, as I got older, one of the teachers would have a dual role, would be a principal and a teacher. Then the other teacher would be just a straight-up classroom teacher.

H:   And did they live in the community as well?



	J:	No. Some of them drove. The person that lived in the community, the one person that lived geographically closest to the community that was a teacher at that school was a teacher that died a few years ago here, her name was Mrs. Hattie. At the time, before she married, her name was Hattie May Farmer. The Farmer family lived in 326 going west, there’s a community up there called Pine Grove.





It’s a church, it crosses Highway 27. Highway 27 goes into Williston. But if you’re on 326 going west, you cross over 27, and as soon as you cross over 27, you are in Pine Grove. Mrs. Hattie Farmer family lived up there. And she was also my first-grade teacher. And she drove from there, mornings, to the school.

	H:	So, she had a car and she would drive to the school? J:	Yes.

	H:	So, tell me about a school day. You get up in the morning and then what happened?

	J:	I remember I’d forget the starting time. Something like eight o’clock. And they would ring a bell. There was a bell. The bell would ring five minutes before time for you to be in the school in your seat. Five minutes before, that bell would—And whoever would ring the bell would come out to the front of the school because kids would be out playing on the playgrounds, some still walking on their way.

And they would ring the bell—ring-a-ding-ding—you could hear the bell. So, if you wasn’t in position to be in your seat, you start moving a little faster to get in. [Laughter] Because the teachers would kind of reinforce you being in. We had quite a few students sometimes would be late, so they had a thing on the teacher’s registry book of tardiness. So, the teachers would actually record tardiness and sometimes they would start dealing with—If you was a habitual tardiness student, they would probably start some communication with parents to make sure you got to school on time. So, I remember those and I remember, if I’m right, eight o’clock you started. As you said, the school was divided. First through third grade was one section. There was a wooden partition between the





section of the school, third through sixth, another section, there was a door. Without going out the school, there was a door in the end of the partition which would allow some exchanges between the two sections of the school. And usually, there was not a heavy traffic. The teachers and the principals didn’t want a heavy traffic of students using the door. The teachers could go between. If they sent students to the other side for some reason, for that reason. But the way that the discipline was is that the great majority of students, in order to go to the other side, you had to go out the school, go out the doors, all the way, exteriorly. And I remember the ten o’clock recess. Everybody look forward, that was a popular period where you gon’ take a break. I forget now what the period of time. You go out. Sometimes the teachers had kind of organized, you played little games. And the recess was for a certain period of time, they rang the bell, now it’s time for you to get back in. Then you had a lunch. There was no lunchroom, you brought your lunch in a brown paper bag. Brown paper bag was the dominant way that lunch—you came with sandwiches and other things. Some children—and imagine this, because of the economic situation—some kids had no lunch. Now, lunchtime was outside, you had to go out the building. You go out the building and find a location around the school where you could sit and do this. And then imagine that was where sometimes friends and relationships would be together. Sometimes certain students would share their lunch with other students who didn’t have lunch. Sometimes students who had lunch would exchange between themselves. So, you had all those dynamics for lunch. And then after lunch you came back in. Usually, it was study and curriculum.





	H:	And how did that go, if you had multiple grades, how did the teaching actually occur? And did you have blackboards and books? And the books—you mentioned a little about that last time.

	J:	Well, yes. It was very common in both sections of the school; a large section of the wall was blackboards. And interestingly, the first ones I remember was actually colored in black. You had white chalk and black. It later became the green that I saw—I forget now when that may have come in, the green ones that I remember at Fessenden and other places. But I remember there at Bethlehem, they called it the blackboard and it was black and it was white crayon. And later, the yellow crayon came. That was not what I remember.

	H:	And when the teacher was instructing using the blackboards, would she be talking to the entire class or would she have you broken up by grade level? How did that work?

	J:	Well, if I recall, now if they had first through third in there, the teacher had different ways of having those grade levels working on their grade level. She actually would have first graders doing certain work, second graders doing certain work, and third graders doing certain work.

	H:	So she would group them then?



	J:	She or he would actually do that. Interesting, now, so the distraction you had to deal with, if she had the first graders workin’ in workbooks and then was doing something on the blackboard for third graders, you had all that going on in that same physical setting. And what I see today is different teaching techniques and strategies, what you have today that they had their way back there of doing the





same thing. And obviously, this was necessary because of the limitations in space, the limitation in teaching, as such, it probably would have been better and preferable if they had a teacher for every grade, which they have today. But that was the time. And you could look at, go back to the point of looking at the budget for an entire county. Also, you know that it was very well known that this was a period of legal segregation, so there was a clear determination of what White schools got in terms of teaching resources, and what Black schools got. And they certainly was not equal.

	H:	Were you aware of that at the time?



	J:	Well, I think there was an awareness from what was publicly stated by parents, basically, unique to your own home environment. Teachers may have said something. Students may have had unique experiences. And let me give you what I mean by that. If you were born and raised in Bethlehem and had not had any exposure to any degree of significance beyond Marion County, you not just travel. You probably were limited to the culture and everything there. But let’s just say you had someone who came to that school who had lived in New York or who had lived in Miami, which we did have that to happen—some students actually transferred there. Those students had experience and exposure sometimes to a different world, and so when they would come into the environment, they would share things with you that you would not have heard or been aware of.

	H:	Can you remember any incidents or situations that were described to you?





	J:	Yes. I remember at Bethlehem I had two cousins that lived in Miami for years, and then they came there to live with their auntie and they came--One of them, the oldest one—it was two brothers—and one of them name was Joseph Jones and his brother, they were about two years apart. And his brother’s name was LC Leon Jones. And they been down to Miami. And Joseph, at a very young age, he was a flashy dresser. He dressed nice and groomed and when he came there, at that early age, he was already big into girls. Girls. And he talked about—

	H:	In elementary school?



	J:	He was maybe into fifth or sixth grade, okay? And he talked about prostitution. Now, most of us, that was foreign language. But he had been exposed down in Miami to that. Those were the kinds of things, and I remember at Fessenden, this was a sport thing. Our sports world were contained to—we learned to play basketball and other sports and kind of thought we were good in our area. And we have a person that is kind of in the extended part of my family, his name is Windell Daily. He was from the Zuber area, and his mother died at a young age and so some kind of way, he got to New York. In New York, he learned to play basketball up there with those guys, they got a whole reputation about the guys playing basketball in New York in the playground, where those guys learned all kinda tricks and pass behind your back.

	H:	And probably a hard-surface court as opposed to a dirt court.



	J:	Yes. Well, dirt was what we had. So, Windell came here and so we had our game, and Windell came here dribbling behind his back and all those things in the New York style. Now, he and I, he was a grade behind me at Fessenden, he





went to Benedict College, football scholarship. I went to Florida A&M. We played against each other. We both came back here. He retired from the school district here as a coach and as a teacher, and at one time, I was in the school district as a teacher. He lives right over here very close to where you interviewed Mr.

Fordham. He has a son that played professional basketball and owns, now, a business kind of a world class basketball business. He went to Vanguard.

	H:	Let me back up just a little bit because we were still in Bethlehem. And then you mentioned Fessenden. Why don’t you tell us how you transferred or you left Bethlehem and moved on to Fessenden. Tell us a little about Fessenden and how you entered there.

	J:	Well, it was at a point where the school district at the time—and these things were happening in line with the culture of society, integration were moving at its own speed. Some people probably was more conscious of it than others. But it got to the point where the school district was making a decision. Fessenden School, which had been operating since 1868 as an academy with dormitories and everything on the campus where students lived on the campus. And they had students from an international perspective attending Fessenden. And Fessenden was operated by a missionary society group, it was built and operated. Fessenden had closed in 1951 and the school was sitting there. The Marion County School District purchased the school and opened it as a public school in 1953. And recall I said that prior to that you had one high school for Black students in this entire county, and that was Howard High School. So if you attended these two room schools and had a number of them in all these





communities, Flemington, Sparr, Bethlehem, out at Progressive—it wasn’t called Progressive then, I’m trying to think—out where Progressive Union Church. You had these ready, Flemington, you had all these schools that these kids was going to through sixth grade. When they finishing sixth grade, somebody had to find a way to get them because if they gon’ continue their secondary education, they had to come to Howard High School. Though you had high schools in Anthony and you had high schools in Redding, they were all White schools. And they were not integrated, so Blacks were not going to those schools because they lived closer, so they had to get to Howard. But in [19]53, that changed. They opened Fessenden as a public high school in 1953, so Bethlehem, Lace Palm, all those schools simultaneously—those two rooms schools, they closed simultaneously. They closed and all of those students poured—because Fessenden was an elementary school all the way through high school. Now, kindergarten came later, and remember, when we were talking about Bethlehem, there was no kindergarten at Bethlehem. I don’t’ remember the year that that became part of the public school mission, kindergarten. But Fessenden opened from first grade to twelfth grade on that campus. I finished sixth grade at Bethlehem, so my next school year is a seventh grader at Fessenden.

	H:	The first year that Fessenden opened as a public school?



	J:	Yes. I am a seventh grader attending Fessenden, and that’s the school that I graduated from in 1959. My sports activities was there. I remember—

	H:	At Fessenden?





	J:	Just so many different things. I met my football coach who became a great part of my life, a mentor and a person who basically guided me—

	H:	Who was that?



	J:	His name was Leon W. Watts. When it opened up in [19]53, he became the head athletic director and the head coach there. At that time, they had women’s sports so they had a lady, Mrs. Nancy Coleman, she’s still alive today. Mrs. Coleman is about a hundred years old today. She was the physical education teacher for girls and also the head girls’ coach for girls’ sports. Coach Watts was a graduate of Florida A&M University, which he was able to get me a scholarship to go to.

And I became very close with him, not just during the school year but in my period at Florida A&M University and after.

	H:	So you stayed in touch with him while you were at Florida A&M?



	J:	Yes, I did. And then after I graduated, I stayed in very close touch with him until he passed away.

	H:	So how did you get involved in sports? You’re among the first class—well, everybody came in, all twelve grades came in at the same time at Fessenden. You would’ve been in the junior high, I guess is what they would’ve called it back then.

	J:	Yes.



	H:	How did you get to Fessenden? Was there transportation at that point?



	J:	Yes, school busses was the primary mode of transportation. The busses ran on a certain schedule. However, you had the challenge sometimes of kids sleeping late, getting up late, and sometimes when the bus got there, the bus drivers were





probably gonna wait just a period of time, then they were gonna move on. So if you missed the bus then you had another challenge of trying to find a way to get to school, which obviously you were gonna be late. That happened for a lot of students. From my house to Fessenden is about twelve, fourteen miles. During that time, you didn’t have a lot of cars like you’re gonna see on the road today.

	H:	Did you have bicycles? J:	No.

	H:	Nobody had bicycles? J:	Some kids did.

	H:	But you didn’t?



	J:	No.



	H:	How old were you when you got your first bicycle? J:	Oh, I was probably around about fourteen or fifteen.

	H:	Okay. So anyhow, if you missed the bus, go on What were you going to say?



	J:	If you missed the bus, if your parents had high expectations of you to get to school—If you decided you want to walk, thinking that you gon’ get a ride somewhere, some kids did that. And in some cases, if you missed the bus, you didn’t go to school that day. But that was the circumstance. Some students had cars. Very few students had cars. I tell you, one person that did have a car from our general area, he passed away. Eugene Poole, who was very prominent activist for years here in this company, his parents live up in Blitchton. He was one of the early students to have had a vehicle, and he was coming from Blitchton on 326. And his daddy was a school bus driver, the bus I rode. And





sometimes if we slept late or got behind or missed the school bus, we’d be blessed enough to be on the road and Eugene would come along after his dad. Because he could drive there, he didn’t have to be ahead of his daddy on the school bus. And so, I remember that experience, Eugene and I have had years together. We both did activist work here in the community right until his health failed and he passed away. And also, we worked together in the corrections system. He was a warden up there and both of us retired within the same time. He got in a vehicle accident and got paralyzed. That ended his career. But we knew each other and had known each other all the way from high school and right up.

	H:	I know sports stand out in your memory from Fessenden, what else stands out in your memory and your relationship with Leon Watts? Tell us about that.

	J:	Well, it goes back even to Bethlehem. I just happened to—under a very difficult situation, I don’t know all the reasons for it—I became a pretty good student in most of the courses: reading, math, English. And my teachers recognized it even though—It was happening. I didn’t really have a vision of using it, I just did what I did. And back during the time we was at Bethlehem, some of the most popular student activities were the different activities that the teachers would have. They would have spelling contests, mathematic contests, and that was very popular among the students who wanted to be the best. And I remember back then most of the time the girls ended up being the best spellers, best readers. But some kind of way, I got recognized in those competitions and that motivated me.

	H:	You had a competitive spirit back then?





	J:	Yeah, and so it carried over to Fessenden. And interesting enough, you know, I played a lot of sports. But towards my senior year at that time, they were taking the comprehensive test that the students take now, and I made one of the highest scores in the county, White or Black. And I remember Mrs. Vera Alexander, one of my teachers, when that happened, she really kind of raised that up that I had done that. When I got the football scholarship, it was a full scholarship but Mrs. Alexander knew my economic condition at home, so whoever was administering that at the state level, she used her influence to get them to give me the scholarship amount in dollars over and beyond my football scholarship.

	H:	So that you could afford to go up there and live and pay tuition?



	J:	Well, she knew I had some needs beyond football, even though I had a full scholarship in football, she knew that I was very limited on clothes and other apparel and things like that. And so, she was just this kind of person. Now, typically, because the way the scholarship was, typically when I got the football scholarship, then the process did not allow for me to get the money from the academic scholarship that I had. But that’s what she intervened and worked out and actually got that done. But to me, when I’m looking back on it, once again I say, because typically the boys and particularly the boys who played sports, they kind of gave up some of their academic energy to continue to be good in sports. But I didn’t do that. I kind of stayed the course on the academic side and that served me well.





	H:	How did sports work? You played high school football at Fessenden. How did that work with other teams? Would you go to other schools and play?

	J:	Yes, we had schedules. At the beginning of the season, just as they do today, we knew every team that we was going to play, the date we was gonna play, where we was gonna play it, both home and away—

	H:	And these were Black schools playing Black schools? J:	Yes.

	H:	There was no integration whatsoever in sports or anything else?



	J:	No. I never had any of the integration experience until I went to the military. H:	Mmhm. So Fessenden would play against what other towns?

	J:	We played Don Allen. We played Belleview. These are inter-county teams. We played DeFuniak Springs. We played Saint Augustine. We played Fernandina Beach. We played Alachua. We played Williston. We played… there are probably some other teams I’m not thinking of. And now, we did play--my last year—Now, remember, when Fessenden came into existence, then you had these Black high schools: Don Allen, Belleview—in Marion County. And then you had Howard High School. So really—

	H:	So, would you play Howard as well then?



	J:	No. We played Howard my last year. We did not play Howard because Howard was a real—If you talking about classification, they wasn’t thinking so much of classification like they do today: Four A, Five A. But Howard, because Howard had such a large student body, so they didn’t play. Howard had been a class above us in football. But we played them because of my head coach and the





head coach from Howard, they got to meet each other and they kind of made a gentleman’s agreement: “We’re going to play each other.” They beat us pretty soundly that year. [Laughter] We played the surrounding schools from some of these other counties. You know, I have some of those friends and relationships are amazing because some of the teams that we played—Let’s take Alachua, Florida, that’s where my daddy’s from, right? And this is not Gainesville, because Gainesville had their own high school. We played Gainesville too. But Alachua County had its own school, Mebane High School. There was an athlete there, his name was Hughie Dixon, and Hughie Dixon was the epitome of Jim Brown. He looks like him, he was the size of him in high school. He was a monster. So we played Alachua in high school and Hughie Dixon was in the same class I was in so low and behold, when I get to FAMU in 1959, Hughie Dixon is there as a freshman with me. So, we played—

	H:	Played on the same team?



	J:	Same team. He later played for the Oakland Raiders. He died a few years ago here. But you can imagine, we knew each other in high school and so we get there, it’s a natural friendship because of having known each other before we got to FAM. It’s automatic, so Hughie and I became very good friends. When he went to the Oakland Raiders, he made his home out here and lived out there.

And when he passed away, they only did a memorial to him at the Mebane gym. I attended that, but they funeralized him out there. Hughie and I have a lot of memories going back to high school.





	H:	Going back to high school, you talked about Leon Watts being important in your life. Tell me about your relationship with him. Why was he a mentor, and what did he represent for you?

	J:	He probably I think kind of reached out to me because what happen usually, in the minds of a lot of boys, you coming up in an environment, is that things are turning so fast in your head that you’re not really thinking much into the future. But things are happening in your life. And Coach Watts, I guess there’s something that does come through, you dealing with someone on a daily basis as a relationship, you’re going to school and you’re in his PE classes, you’re in his athletic domain and he was a basketball coach, football coach, track coach, all of that. And at some point, there was a kind of spirit that comes together. You probably began to think when somebody genuinely care for you, they doing things that they don’t have to do. Sometimes the discipline—and you know, sometimes what throws it off is that when you’re operating from a point of maturity, coaches looking at all of us that he had on this day. Now his mind is looking at all of us. And then our own individual personalities sometimes probably is catching his attention, different things about our sports ability, how we conduct ourselves. And he’s knowing something about how well we doing in the classroom and all these things. In his mind—but yet we are not where he is at.

We kind of over here spaced out, all of this foolish stuff that we still got in our mind. But generally speaking, in short, I think now that I can look back on it, Coach Watts probably attracted me because I determined he genuinely cared about me. Somewhere, that—





	H:	You felt that? Even back then?



	J:	Yes. This man is doing things for me, doesn’t have to do. He got all these other athletes here, boom, boom, boom. And it came through very clear. He told me real early, “You’re doing to go to school.” And at that time, I certainly didn’t have that in my mind, “You going to go to college.” I made no preparation. I didn’t buy no clothes; I didn’t do nothing. I just played sports and let the rest of it—

	H:	And that was not on your mind until he pointed it out to you?



	J:	He said it to me and it was kind of—Yeah, I liked it. By the time I seen some persons going to college and that was—But I had all of this other—

	H:	People had gone to college from Fessenden, were you aware of?



	J:	Yeah, we had a few that had—matter of fact, and something unique—I was in two senior classes at Fessenden. I got my first senior year; I would have graduated in 1958. The first football game in 1958, I got blocked and blew out my left knee. And I stayed out of school the entire year, didn’t go back.

	H:	Stayed home?



	J;	Stayed home. Did not go to school the rest of the year. Ad my mind was, “I’m gonna heal my knee.” During that time, I never had surgery. Back then, you didn’t have all of the medical quick response anything. So, I never had surgery on this knee to this day, left knee. But as it got better and I start training, I knew I wanted to go back to school to finish and I wanted to play football, because by that time Coach Watts had convinced me on the college team. So, knee got better, I enrolled, and the second class in 1959. Now, I come from first grade to twelfth grade with these students, and they graduated. My class had graduated. So now,





I got one year left. So, I come with this class that was one year behind me. And I talk like this right now in our reunion, one of few students were in two twelfth grade classes. And so, everything went well for me the second year, sports-wise, academically, I got the scholarship—

	H:	And Mr. Watts was instrumental in that?



	J:	Very much right there to make sure that I could play this next year, because the high school association had a rule that your eligibility—I had played. Because I did not play three quarters in that first game where I got injured, if I had played three quarters, I would’ve been ineligible to play the next year. But because of getting injured so early in that game, the high school association voted that I was eligible to play this next year. And so, that was the key for my success, that I was able to play the next year.

	H:	So he actually had to take that to the high school association and a determination was made?

	J:	He did, and he was advocating for me and it happened. And so, I will tell you, the other thing that came through with that, I played baseball as a kid. I played community baseball a lot, started real young, eleven or twelve years old, playing with grown men. So, I was pretty good in baseball. So it was time now, it’s fall, it’s about August and I should’ve been getting ready to go to FAMU and I was out there to Zuber where the baseball diamond was on Sunday afternoon, I should’ve been ready to be—Coach Watts drove up in his car. He had a blue Chevy, if I can remember. And I was playing catch baseball with somebody. And so, he had this way, his voice, everybody knew him. “Whit! What are you doing





here? You should be in Tallahassee!” Kind of had his like— I said, “Coach, I ain’t got no clothes to go.” Know what he had done? He had, in the back of his car, he had this trunk full of clothes that he gon’ give me. Suits and coats and everything. And he took me, he said, “Get in the car, get in the car.” Because he knew that this was—It’s like this. This is on Sunday afternoon. And technically, he knew that I was supposed to be reporting Monday morning.

	H:	With your scholarship?



	J:	Yeah, for the team. I was supposed to be reporting, and coach knew this. Leon’s still there. And so he took me out to the house and told me daddy, he said, “Mr. Boss—” I think he called him Mr. Jenkins. “Mr. Jenkins, we fixin’ to leave.” Took me to the Greyhound bus station. During that time, that building is still down there on Magnolia. Greyhound bus, bought me a ticket. During that time to go to Tallahassee on a Greyhound bus was about four dollars and something. Paid for the ticket. And he called the head trainer for the football team. His name is George Thompson. George is ninety-something years old, he’s still alive today up in Tallahassee. He called George and said, “George, Whitfield is on the Greyhound bus.” Now, Coach Watts played for Chris Gaither so he knew. And matter of fact, Coach Gaither had adopted him, Coach Gaither and his wife had adopted Coach Watts. So, he called George and said, “Whitfield is gonna arrive, he need you to pick him up from the bus station.” And sure enough, when the bus arrived in Tallahassee, George Thompson was there. He took me to Sampson Hall, Florida A&M University. Took me to a room. There was not a sheet on the bed. That first night it was a mattress. I forget now the time when I





got there, but the next morning is football time and they come up at five o’clock in the morning. It was like the military, they blowing the whistle.

	H:	Athletic dormitory?



	J:	Sampson Hall was a student dormitory. H:	Not athletic, okay.

	J:	No, it was mixed with other students. The housing people had determined where you gon’ be. Okay. Now, we there—this is before the students come because we starting football early. So, it’s only football students there. They come up five o’clock blowing a whistle like a military get. “Get up, you got to get down, get your pads, and get out.” So that was my first night before I even had any linen.

	H:	Let me back up just for a second because I’m intrigued here. You’re out playing baseball on the field, you’ve got no clothes—that’s one of the things that’s standing in your way—you have a scholarship, you know you’re expected to go up there.

	J:	Yes.



	H:	What might have happened if he hadn’t— J:	Probably I would not have gone.

	H:	You would not have gone? J:	I would not have gone.

	H:	You didn’t feel prepared, whether it was clothes or whether it was motivation? J:	Yes. Just too many negative—I mean, economic things.

	H:	So, he must’ve known something about your situation from his relationship with you.





	J:	He did.



	H:	And he was gonna make sure it happened?



J:  He did. That was his reason for coming with those clothes in the truck. And I’ll never forget this because he’s a tall man and big man, so his clothes were too big for me. I remember wearing those coats and the sleeves was coming here. But they were better than anything I had. I’ll never forget that.

	H:	So, he takes you from the baseball field to your dad, says you’re going, your dad says going, next thing you know you’re on the Greyhound bus and you’re on your way to Tallahassee?

	J:	Yeah.



	H:	That must’ve been some kind of feeling.



	J:	And it show you the power of something going on. It’s amazing, when I got there and I found out how many players came just as I came and for various reasons, they left. Did not stay. Some are home sick. It was kind of something among us that all of us remember the name of great players, some of them great players. Players would sometimes leave in the middle of the night without telling.

	H:	Totally unannounced?



	J:	Totally unannounced. Just decided to get their trucks. And we had this thing about trunks, you could hear trunks on the stairs clicking as people were leaving. And there were two or three great athletes from Ocala. Both passed away.

There’s a player that was two or three years ahead of me, his name is Van Poole. He was a great, great end. Played the same position I played. He went up there and he made the first team—and FAMU had a great team—he made the





first team his first year and just spontaneously left because of a lady back home here that he was homesick for. Never returned. And then the players that played with him when I got there always had asked me, “What happened to Van Poole?” They remember him. Another one that was in the same grade that I was in the same year, his name was Bob Rice. Played professional baseball, he had a professional baseball contract, and headed for FAMU. If he went up there, he would’ve been a star at FAM. And overnight, he disappeared, came back to Ocala, never returned.

	H:	What was the difference between them and you, do you think?



	J:	I just believe that there was something that was bigger than me that guided me in terms of wanting to do certain things, be successful in certain things. Because there were many periods of loneliness. My mind was just turning, turning, just lonely.

	H:	Just like with these other players? J:	Yes.

	H:	You experienced the same kind of feelings that they did.



	J:	Right, but something kept me. I stayed. And when I look back on it today, I know it was something bigger than me that was guiding my life. Because I could relate to these players that did leave. If you live around certain people all your life and you wake up every day and you leave those people, it’s like when you go off to the Army. That’s a culture shock, to not have the—You’re not in a situation where you can decide, “Okay, I’m finna leave. I don’t like this. I’m finna go back home.” I mean, that’s another situation. You committed here for three years. Three years





here. You gon’ be where we send you. There’s a lot of persons actually have mental breakdowns because that stressin’ and it’s too much for them to handle.

H:  And it sounds like you had this larger power that you describe and you also had folks like Mr. Watts, who had faith in you and probably inspired you and maybe was there prepared to intercept the Greyhound bus if you were to go home and put you right back on it. [Laughter]

	J:	And you know what, that’s true. And to add to that, sometimes it was people in positions like teachers, but sometimes it was student, friend relationships. Some person just got in my life that had the same effect. I had some friends there at FAM my first year. I developed some friends that those relationships still exist today and we enjoy when we are able to go back.

	H:	Still have those lifelong friendships? J:	Yes.

	H:	Let me move ahead. I know you are successful and that’s well documented. I think I read somewhere where your team were national championships your final two years. And you had a great relationship with your coach there again?

	J:	Yeah. Coach Gaither was a phenomenal person that in our life, he was kind of one of those persons bigger than life. Coach Watts was special, but Coach Gaither—And we were living in the world with him. Here’s a man that’s being talked about internationally. And there we are, you know, in proximity. And it’s kind of like you say, “Wait a minute,” you know, “Why am I--? Is this for real?”

	H:	You were in the presence of greatness?





	J:	Yes. Coach Gaither, this is not supposed to happen. I’m playing for this? You wake up and you see some international media source talking about this man. And then we had the ability every day to feel, see, and touch him. It was just phenomenal. He had a way, a charisma, of just kind of—He shared so many things to you in his unique way without being condescending himself to you. You wanted to make sure that you never got to a point where you could do less than in expectations then ingratiate yourself to him. He just kept such a high level of expectations. He didn’t put himself in a position to make you laugh. He had a way of he looked at you that he—It’s an eye stare, an eye twinkle that you remember. I remember the twinkle that he had a unique way that he did his eyelids when he was talking to you about something. He told me, he said, “You know how you remember me?” I don’t remember him ever calling me Whitfield or Jenkins. He referred to me as Watts’ Boy.

H:   Naming your coach?



J:   Yeah. Watts, this is Watts’ Boy. That’s what he always was saying. H:   Because of the relationship he had established with Coach Watts?

J:  Yes. Coach Watts was the—I’ll never forget this—when he passed away, they had his funeral in the gymnasium up there, the Jay Gaither Gymnasium and Coach Watts wheeled his wife, she was very aged at that time and in a wheelchair. And Coach Watts was the one that pushed the wheelchair down when she had her place. But that was—having played for that man and just kind of in the environment that we had during the time, the era, the time. It was a segregated time. There’s something else that I always--. I had my first airplane ride as a Rattler Wheeler.





We left Tallahassee. We were playing down in the Orange Bowl Classic in Miami. It’s still in my scrapbook; I still got a copy of the ticket. The ticket stub.

H:   For the plane?



J:  Yes. First airplane ride in my life from Tallahassee to Miami. And what will I remember? I remember when we left it was in stormy season, and I don’t know that today the plane would have been cleared to take off. But it was in stormy season, flooding rains when we left Tallahassee. And I remember a number of the players were like me and were taking their first plane ride and I remember the tenseness that they had. And when we got to Miami and the plane land, the runway was so watery, when the plane wheels when down into the water, large amount of water came all the way up like you was in the ocean. And I remember the perspiration of some of the players that thought, “Oh, we have crashed into the ocean.” But that was interesting. Something that I will remember for a long time.

H:   and when you’re in Miami, you spent the night there, is that correct?



J:  Oh yeah, we were there—For the Orange Blossom Classic we would go in on Thursday. We played the game on Saturday night. And we flew out on Sunday. Yeah. We were living in the hotel on Miami Beach.

H:   That was gonna be my next question. Were these segregated hotels or not?



J:   No, this was not. They did have a hotel at one time—I’m trying to think of the name of it—that was on the beach in Miami that was Black. What did they call that hotel? I think they recently renovated it and a Black entrepreneur owns it now. But no, this was Seagull Hotel was not a Black-owned hotel.

H:   And no segregation within the floors as far as you know?





J:   No.



H:  In other words, it was a completely integrated hotel? J:  Oh, yeah.

H:  Okay. Let me back up a little bit. I get the feeling with both coaches, with Coach Gaither and Coach Watts that not only your relationship with them but perhaps your teammates relationship with them was more than just football.

J:   Certainly, yeah.



H:  Can you describe that? In other words, both from the way they presented themselves to you and the way you received them.

J:   Well, I had a blessing of planned five years under Coach Gaither having met all the players on the roster during those five years and had a relationship. But I’m blessed to have even a bigger experience by being a member of an organization that was created, which exists today, called the National Ralla F Club, which is a membership organization for former Rattler players, other sports, and supporters. We meet three or four ties a year. Florida Classic is an annual meeting. Usually, it might be the first game, a home game in Tallahassee, we meet. And the persons who are in that across much larger spectrum. Some of the players that played for Coach Gaither in the [19]50s and the [19]40s, they still are—they’re well up in age. Some of them still attend these events. And some of the players after my period there are a part of this. And so, we have a chance to hear each other talk about Coach Gaither and the era and the coaches and everything. A just to a person, there’s a similarity in terms of admiration for Coach Gaither. He is an icon, broadly, across all of us over all those years who was touched in some way by him. And he





left a legacy that extended for the coaches that came after him. He left a legacy that for instance, a couple of coaches that actually came to FAMU who played under him. There was a coach called Coach Pete Griffin, who was one of his assistant coaches and played for him—this was way back. And then you had, recently, a young man who played for Cincinnati Bengals ten years, Ken Raley from Bartow. He lives in Bartow now. He played under Coach Gaither. All of the guys, when you meet and you’re here just kind of listening to the collective statements and experiences they have and how they express themselves about Coach Gaither. It’s testimony to the greatness.

H:   And when you meet, what story might you share about your relationship with him or what he meant for you, personally?

J:  Well, multiple ones. Probably his wife. Coach Gaither’s wife was an English teacher. Her name was Sadie Gaither and she and Coach Gaither, the student body knew who they were, other than football players and everything. English, if there was a course that challenged me, it was English. My first year, when you come there and they said, “Oh, don’t take English.” Football players, you would think they would be inclined to pick English believing that the coach’s wife was gonna give you a break. But the worry was that, “Don’t take English from Ma Gaither—” They called her Ma Gaither. Because, boy, she flunks you. She flunk a lot of people. And then you can’t go to coach asking for no relief from Ma Gaither. So, you heard that coming in from all the guys that had been there before. So I knew it. I took English from—In my mind, I passed English in high school so I could do this. So I go and take English from Ms. Gaither and boy, she had these





assignments that sometimes the class, you was thinking you was at Harvard in English. I get an F. I get an F in English.

H:   Semester grade?



J:   Yes, first semester I get an F. Boy, I’m really [inaudible 2:15:20] because this is not happening to me. So, I say, “What do I do? What is my choices, my options, because now I gotta determine the next semester. What am I gonna sign up for and who I’m gonna sign up? So, I make a courage decision, because a lot of the guys was trying to get me to go. I said, “No, I got to solve this.” So I went to Mrs. Gaither, I said, “Mrs. Gaither, I don’t know what is it that got me off on the wrong foot. I could not catch up, could not do this, could not do this.” And she looked and she just kind of gave me a solid, very non-assuming look. So, she said to me, “Are you serious about wanting to pass this semester?” “Yes ma’am.” She said, “I tell you what Imma do, Imma set you up an appointment schedule. I want you to come up here to my office at the end of football practice.” And she gave me a schedule to meet with her. I forget what period of time it was.

H:   This is you and she together?



J: Yeah. One-on-one. And so each time I came she had these activities and assignments fort me right there. And I followed that and at the end of that grading period, I got a C. So, that’s one of the things that I remember. Not so much coach—

H:   She probably did not make it easy, but she wanted to help you go through.



J:  Yes. And she didn’t cut no slack. She didn’t do anything. I had to perform. But she took some time to go back and teach me some very basics that I had—What had happened, what got me off, I had missed some basics earlier, in high school. And





those things were affecting my performance there. Particularly, writing of essays. She brought me a long ways.

	H:	Was coach aware—I’m sure, must’ve been aware that you were taking— J:	He talked—

	H:	About taking extra lessons with her.



J:  Yeah. He talked to me about it. Very, very, very encouraging. And another thing, coach kept up with your grades. If he saw you sticking to your lesson and at the same time giving a commitment—because he really was demanding on the football field. But if he saw you sticking to it, he was gonna let you know how proud he was of you. He loved to talk about good students.

H:   And you felt that from him personally?



J:  Yes. But we had, you know, Bob Hayes was one of my teammates and I remember how he stayed with Bob. Bob one time got put in jail. There was a person that used to come to the campus, a young boy, and he used to kind of sell peanuts. And Bob Hayes was a prankster.

H:  This is not Bob Hayes the track star? J;  Yes!

H:   Same one?



J:  Yes, same Bob Hayes. Yeah, Bob came a year after me and we played four years together. But Bob, this peanut vendor would come to the dormitory. He would be selling peanuts. He would come regular so we all knew him. But one day, Bob Hayes took something like a cap gun or something and put it on him like he was robbing him. And the guy went and reported it to the campus police. They arrested





Bob, actually arrested him. And they actually, the state’s attorney charged him. And Coach Gaither—somewhere I got this in something that’s written-- Coach Gaither went down there and questioned them. Said, “I tell you what. You all release this young man under my care. I will vouch for him.” They did. The state’s attorney agreed to actually—Now, Bob Hayes had parents in Jacksonville. But they actually some kind of way under that situation on the way the state’s attorney sometimes can deal, there was kind of like, “Bob, you are under Coach Gaither’s direction and if you successfully complete this—”

H:   They withheld the charges, it sounds like.



J:   Withheld the charges. And it was just like Coach Gaither had adopted him. H:   He felt a responsibility to make sure that he kept him outta trouble.

J:  And I heard Bob tell that just before he died. I went to Jacksonville, because Bob Hays went to prison, you know, after a period of playing with the Dallas Cowboys.

H:   I knew he played for the Cowboys, I did not know he went to prison.



J:  He went to prison. Roger Stowbeck came to his rescue, got him out. He went to work after he got out of prison. He was heavily involved in drugs, that’s what he went to prison for. I forget how long he served. But Roger Stowbeck, who was his quarterback gave him a job when he got out, kind of turned his life around. And he came back to Jacksonville. He was a member of the church there in Jacksonville. They had an event for him there at the church and I went to Jacksonville to that event and heard him speak. And he was very, very open and genuine and telling about his struggles and thanking people for coming to his rescue and everything.

H:   Coach Gaither being one of them, I’m sure.





J:  Yes, yes. Oh, he had so many things to say about Coach and Mrs. Gaither. But shortly thereafter he died, so I went to his funeral at the same church. They did a video tribute to him there and he said some powerful things in there about people that-- Roger Stowbeck was there at the funeral, a lot of the Dallas Cowboys persons. And there was a guy—When Bob Hayes was playing with the Dallas Cowboys, a key game that used to be highly rated as television was when the Dallas Cowboys played the Washington Redskins. The Washington Redskins had this guy that would be the mascot with the feathers and everything. He came to the funeral dressed in the costume that he did out of respect for Bob Hayes. It was really a kind of moving experience.

H:  Let me move ahead, because I know we’ve got a lot to cover. You did not graduate when you joined the army or were drafted into the Army, tell us about that.

J:  Yeah, when I finished the football season of [19]63, I still have—I remember, my internship, in order to complete to get my degree. I did not do it.

	H:	And you were a physical education major?



J:   Yes, and the internship was required. I did not finish. So, when I finished in [19]63, I left FAM—No, I stayed in school until [19]64. So, I left FAM in [19]64, kind of shocked because I’m no longer on scholarship. Kind of trying my strategy for doing the internship. Forgetting about that I had gotten three deferments from the military along the way as a result of coach’s intervention during those years. And I’m just about the age, according to the law, if you reached twenty-six, you’re no longer eligible for the draft. So, I’m twenty-five and counting, not thinking. And I come





back here to Ocala, must be—I forget, was it a break or something? I come back here, my daddy’s home.

	H:	Still out in Bethlehem?



J:  Still out in Bethlehem. I go to the mailbox. There was a metal mailbox like you see some people here, out there. And I checked the mail, and there’s this letter. It’s the draft. No, it’s a report for the draft. And this is my reporting date, it was February 17th, [19]65. I’ll never forget. At this time, I’m puzzled. I couldn’t muster it, the way it was then, it was inevitable you get drafted. Once they determined that you were physically—if they had determined that you had any kind of physical impairment or anything, you really had little chance of getting out. Now previously, they did give the deferments for college and was doing that. So coach was able to do that. But now, I don’t have any way to get out of this, a normal way, unless I do like Mohammad Ali did and refuse, say it’s for religious something. But they actually, in a time of war, they actually are very strict in terms of any excuses that you can get out of. So, I said, “Well, let me go ahead and get this done.” Two years. It was two years, drafted. You volunteer your first time that’s three years. So, I had only two years. When that day came, I’ll never forget going down to the Selective Service center here in Ocala. The person, the directors, they swore us in there. And then organized us in terms of our next trip would be to travel from Ocala to Jacksonville and from Jacksonville to Fort Jackson, South Carolina. Militarily, they start you off once they swear you in of giving orders and very formal instructions. Somebody’s gon’ be in charge and all of that. So, I remember that exercise. So I’m off to that. And that was during the period, the Vietnam War was there in that





period. I went to South Florida for the medical tests, shots, and then they shipped me off to Fort Gordon for basic training.

	H:	Fort Gordon?



J:  Fort Gordon, Georgia. And I did the basics there, then I turned around and did the AIT training there at Fort Gorgon, the same place.

	H:	AIT meaning?



J:   It’s the next. Basics is eight weeks, and then there’s another—I’m trying to think of the period—of advanced training. AIT is advanced training there. And then the AIT training is actually what it’s called, your specialty. And so I was then determined a military police officer. So that’s the training that I got in AIT, to be a military police officer.

H:  And let me back up just a second, last time we were talking, this was your first, true, fully integrated experience, I think.

	J:	Yes.



H:  What do you remember about that in itself, the fact that it was fully integrated? Did that strike you in any kind of way?

J:   Yes. I had all of these—as you can imagine—all of my experiences all of my life had been in Black institutions. And so, you can recognize now, I’ve been in a formal university for five years. And so I no longer just have my limitations of what I learned at Bethlehem and Fessenden, I’ve now been under very learned people with all kinds of different experiences at the college level. So, I am well-aware now of what’s going out here in society in terms of racism and discrimination and all about civil rights heroes and martyrs. How that conversation is going. And so, I’m





not ready to be subservient to anyone. I’m ready, I’m standing up for myself in any situation. So, that’s what I’m entering the military in. Now, the military has some dynamics. And though it integrated in [19]51, and so it was passing itself off as to be more progressive on race issues than the general society. But we all know now that that was not one hundred percent true, that a large number of the military hierarchy and officers was Southerners for various reasons, and many of them, though they held those leadership positions, they still had values. So, I’m going into this institution now not really knowing that to expect. But I did share to you, we left Ocala and the lady had to go back because she was for year the director of the Selective Service Center here in Ocala, so when we went in to be sworn in and they start directing who was gonna be in charge as we were moving to these next stations, this young man named Vonnie who worked for Swiffin Company— Swiffin Company was a meat pack house and company here. And he worked for the company. He was a White person; he wasn’t too smart. But he was in charge. They put him in charge and gave him the tickets, the meal tickets and everything. And he immediately—I mean, he enjoyed giving orders and bossin’. And I’m kind of taking stock of this. He’s here, country, Ocala. I done been to FAM and now this guy is in charge.

H:  And you’ve been through five years of college and he’s been through probably none.

J:  None. His job was meat packing. He was doing skinning or something there at the packing company. But put him in charge and he enjoyed it. He enjoyed kind of making us troops. “All right, y’all men get in line,” and giving orders.





	H:	And when you say us, do you mean--? J:	There was a number of us.

	H:	Blacks and Whites?



	J:	Yes it was Blacks and Whites.



	H:	He treated you equally but with—



J:  Well, I couldn’t tell the individual situation to determine whether sometimes he kind of—

	H:	You didn’t hear racial slurs or anything like that?



J:   No, nothing like that. It was just kind of a “I’m in charge,” kind of thing. So that went on. We went to Jacksonville, he had that same role. We went to Fort Jackson, South Carolina, and he had the same role. That’s where we getting our shots. Now we fixing to leave there, you going to Fort Gorgon. We get to Fort Gordon and fate would have it, “Jenkins, you in charge.” And he happened to be in my same platoon, the guy who had done this. And my job, I’m in charge of the barracks and everybody there cleaning up. Cleaning the batteries up, all the details, picking up paper. All the things that they start off because it’s a plethora of discipline things that they got in place to make sure that you get out of that civilian world that you’ve been so accustomed to and you start adhering to orders and get towing the line and spit shine and all that. So now I’m in charge and he turns out to be the guy that’s having the toughest time towing the line, doing all this stuff. And so, I’m on his case—[Laughter] seven-twenty-four. And he came in there, when we finished at Fort Gordon he was not a military police officer. He did not go to AIT training. We parted. So I don’t see him again until he get released and I get released—we





get released on the same day. One day—that’s the way it works. You go in on— mine is February 17th—and I’m released on February 16th. He is released somewhere, wherever he is at, he is released on February 16th, the same day, because we getting inducted, all of us, here. So he comes back to Swiffin and he regains his job there. So he calls me to tell me, “Whitfield, I’ll never forget,” and he start reminiscing of that period.

H:  What I think I’m hearing is that in a way, the military sounds like a football team. Because you shared a mission that bigotry and racism did not play a significant role in your military experience.

J:  Very true. The military was a great, positive growth in my life. It helped me immensely in discipline. It helped me to make some decisions independently from having other people make decisions. It helped me personal things of grooming, you’re required haircuts and other personal hygiene, you’re inspected. You go through a lot of inspections. You get rewards for doing positive things and demerits for doing negative things. And so, the totality of those experiences—that’s one of the things that I think most military persons will tell you. A lot of them come out of challenging environments. If you see, really, a lot of soldiers they leave places, poverty, for the Army and they come out, they look like a different person. They’ve got life. You can attribute that to the Army, the military.

	H:	Because everybody was treated equal?



J:   Similar. Now, there is a catch. I wanna say this. In any person, they generally will tell you that it still is today in 2019 there is racism, components of racism just in some ways as it was in the [19]50s and [19]60s. It just has manifest itself different.





But the military institution, I believe, can give itself credit for being ahead of the rest of society in general in terms of equity. It is put into its structure some programs and rewards and demerits for all persons to basically have the same mission. For that, I think it’s better than a lot of the other institutions that—You know, I look at something, our school system here. My NAACP work, I have met with them, asked for certain information to try to evaluate their diversity and their efforts, which is a very complicated system to actually do that. But I met with them over the years, and I would hear different responses from the superintendents and schoolboard members saying that they’re making all these efforts and that they don’t discriminate and they don’t do this and they do that, and yet when I look at some of the decisions, it does not equate to what they are saying.

H:   Mmhmm.



J:   Okay, now I have said to them from my experiences, one of the things that you can do to more measure and determine that you are a system of equity, you need a specialized department of trained individuals who administer your EEO program.

H:   EEO meaning?



J:  Equal Opportunity, equity. Many government bodies, local government bodies, have that entity built in. They have staff members who are specifically trained—a lot of it is legal—to make sure that in your organization that all of your leadership is equated with the legal laws that guide how you make decisions on employment and training and treatment and the whole all of it, pay and equity. It’s a very, very legal demanding area. You watch progressive systems and they’ve made a decision that it’s worth the investment to have that. “We have to pay for this but we





gon’ come out at the end,” because the consequence of not having that when they add it up, whether a thousand dollars, a thousand cents, it clearly—For instance, one lawsuit can cost you millions of dollars. One lawsuit that somebody took a wrongful action, made a wrong call and cost you a lot. The city of Ocala here a few years ago—and I’ll never forget because I was involved somewhat in the situation—they had a city manager, a lady who came and she reflected real early that she wanted to address some discrimination she saw. So, she hired two Black department heads, one was in finance, and one was in human resources. Okay. And everybody that’s been here locally and deserving had the conception that, “Hey, things are better. They’re rolling along.” And a White employee who applied for the human resource position, he filed a reverse discrimination lawsuit that says he was better qualified or something than the Black person got the job. Filed a lawsuit. And the lawsuit went to trial. It was uphold that the White employee was discriminated, so it cost the city of Ocala eight hundred and fifty thousand dollars. That was foolish, eight hundred and fifty thousand dollars. I talked to the same city manager and I talked about, “Why don’t you include in the government structure, the EEO department is specifically trained people. Because the people that you got, you’re using the personnel manager and other people to make decisions. They are not as talented and as knowledgeable as that person that matters, they are not trained in EEOC. The City of Gainesville have such a department, Orlando have such a department. Clearwater have such a department. And you can go and have those people come and they’ll tell you those departments helped save their governments a lot of money. And they have been able to achieve their goals in





terms of diversity. Locally here, our county doesn’t have it, our city doesn’t have it, our school board doesn’t have it. And you can look at and talk to the people who are in the community who care about that and they will invariably tell you that there’s a problem with that. So, that’s kind of what the Army—

H:  I was gonna say, let’s go back to the Army because what you’re saying both on paper and in practice, at least from your experience, they did a better job.

J:  Yes. And I have the reinforcement because I talked—there’s a good friend of mine here, he is a retired colonel out of the US Army, he moved here the last maybe six years, Colonel Gordon Black. He’s very active in the community here, he has held some very, very high-level positions in the military. And so, we have conversations about—these are very frank conversations, because he is very active here with the bridges project organization addressing race matters. Now, I have these conversations about our local situation. But he—I know his background. He held very, very high-level positions to include being in charge of a fort location. And you could just say, “Well, this is a Black man that’s held this position.” Well, he could come here in Marion County, do you know he would have a hard time getting a position here? He’s been in charge of thousands of people making decisions in the military. He come here in Marion County and couldn’t get a job in the basic department.

H:  Mmhmm. Let me get back, so you served two years in the military and somehow end up back at FAMU, is that correct?

J:  Came back after I got released from the military, came back to FAMU to complete internship and that’s where I met a lovely lady named Lauretta Pompeii Jenkins





walking on the sidewalk. Lauretta, I found out to be, she was from Ocala, she had been in Ocala since I think she was in ninth grade. She came here from Chipley, Florida. She was living with her oldest sister, Ruth Machans. She was attending Howard High School and graduated from Howard High School and she then enrolled at Florida A&M University and happened to be there when I returned, and that’s where I met her for the first tie.

H:   On the sidewalk.



J:  On the sidewalk. She and a friend of hers named Mildred Sanders were walking together. And I happened to be walking behind them. And they obviously had noticed me for some reasons and was whispering something about me, and I could tell they were whispering so I engaged them kind of as a matter of putting a little pressure. And then we talked and find out that there was a football game that night. And we all agreed to go together. And so, from that point on—

H:  That was the start of your relationship? J:  Yes.

H:  And that e volved, you guys got married where? IN other words, she was a student, you were just finishing up, what happened from there?

J:  Yes, well, she finished. She came here and got a—No, I finished, and I got a job first. I was [19]67. I got a teaching job at Osceola Junior High School.

	H:	So, that was your first job beyond the military? That was your first real employment. J:	That is correct. I got a job at Osceola, [19]67, [19]68 teaching science and math and assistant coach with the football team there. Principal at Osceola at that time

was Bob Jones, and ironically, Bob Jones, though he was a principal, he held a





top position with the labor organization—I think it was FEA—here and that was the same year that the teachers went on strike statewide. And I recall—

H:   Over salary.



J:   Over salary, statewide. And I recall that Bob Jones went out on—He was principal at Osceola—and he went out on a strike and it became some people asked me, being a first-year teacher, “What are you gon’ do?” And I made the decision, I said, “Well, my principal is out and I expect when this thing is over I have to deal with him.” So, I went out on strike too before I ever got my first paycheck.

H:   And Osceola was integrated at that point or not yet?



J:  Well, that was the first year. That first year, I’ll share with you this. The district, because things were so tense on race matters, the district asked all teachers if they would volunteer to teach in a school across their race. And a number of teachers made that decision, White and Black. I was one. There were two Black teachers at Osceola that year, Mrs. Barbara Pinkston and myself. And I remember when the strike was over, the district made it known that it was illegal, that their position was it was illegal to strike. And so, they made it known that persons who went out on a strike were subject to discipline upon the conclusion. And I remember they transferred Bob Jones—his name was Robert Jones—they transferred him as what they though in their mind that because Osceola was supposed to be one of the prime education work environments, the school. And so there was a thought, as a punishment for Bob Jones, to transfer him—

H:   Because of his union involvement?





J:   Yes. To Howard High School, which was the Black school. And that was going to be kind of an, “Okay you know what he did.” But Bob Jones took that as a challenge and went over to that school and had one of the greatest successes at transforming that school. So, my first year—I taught two years there—[19]67-[19]68.

H:   And the student body was integrated as well or not?



J:  Yes, it was. It was not very large. I don’t know what the policies was on student assignment that got it integrated, whether it was volunteer or there was an assignment, but there was not a large number of Black students at Osceola in [19]67.

H:  So, let me stop right there, you are one of two Black teachers volunteering to teach there. Small Black population of students. What did that feel like?

J: Well, it was tense as the school district correctly anticipated. It was a tense environment. And I think one could expect—there was no preparation from the district to protect, to prepare any educators for this new phenomenon that they are going to—prior to this, the school district had been segregated since Reconstruction. And now you’re gonna have a situation where students and teachers, Black and White, are gon’ be all of a sudden in the same environment where you still had the community, though there were federal laws that had changed, everybody would know that pretty much no one in the communities across the nation had given any confessions or testimonies that because the laws had change, we are gon’ comply and we gon’ be different. So now, you had in the community of Marion County, the minds and hearts and souls of people was the same as they had been a hundred years before in terms of race matters, but now





you had a situation where you are saying that we are going to integrate the schools. So, those people that were directly on the front line, had no choice but to try to function and do what they’re role and they’re response teaches, administrator’s role, but clearly stated about, you should have been in a mindset that you was gon’ be as effective in providing education to students in this new environment as you did in the old environment, which was a world different. So, that’s what teachers and students that got caught in that 1967 environment, that’s what they experienced.

H:   What did you experience?



J:  I will tell you that there are a number of things I remember. One was that there were some teachers that would not come in the—we call it the teachers’ lounge areas—when teachers took breaks. If I was in there, there were some White teachers that would not come in and take their breaks there.

H:   And you knew that’s exactly what was going on?



J:  Yeah. Well, that was a White teacher named Mrs. Alvera Moss, she was a biology teacher. If you saw Mrs. Moss, she dressed very plain. But she observed that and she came to me and actually said—she called me Whitfield, she said, “If you feel too uncomfortable you can take your break, you can come down in my room.” And she offered me that, what she thought was kind of giving me an alternative. And so—

H:  She was teaching out to you but not necessarily supporting you staying in the lounge, in other words, she was of giving you an alternative?





J:  Yes. I think she was doing the best she could under that circumstances not really knowing that was troubling. In her way, I couldn’t tell you what Mrs. Moss values were on race matters.

	H:	But she was aware that prejudice was causing a problem? J:	Yes, yeah.

	H:	Yeah. And so, what happened? Did you take her up on that?



J:   No, I never did. Basically, I went in the lounge when I felt to and just dealt with what was there. Sometimes I stayed in my classroom; I had the option of staying in my classroom.

H:   Tired to ignore it as best as you could but it sounds like it was hard to ignore.



J:  Yes, because during that time in the teachers’ lounge, the teachers take their break, they actually would smoke in the lounge. Now, today, you know, you have these smoke free places and everything. So the lounge was the place where teachers would, when they take their break, drink a soda or drink a water, smoke. And I didn’t smoke, so that was not a need that I had to go into the lounge to smoke or anything like that. So, that’s what I remember. And there were other things going on in the county.

H:  So this is behind the scenes but no overt things that people said or did? You would be avoided it sounds like—

J:  Well, I had a situation where I distanced some boys. I was made aware that some boys were smoking in the boys’ bathroom. And so, a principal had kind of said to me he was happy I was there as a male teacher

H:   And this is your new principal, not Mr. Jones?





J:   Yeah, Mr. Jones, Bob Jones. He let me know that he appreciate my leadership and everything and really trying beyond the classroom to help with student control and discipline and everything. And so, I found out these boys—it was a group of Black and White boys—they were stealing away in the bathroom and smoking. So, I went to the bathroom. There was about five of them. I forget now if they told me, but they were Black and White. And so I went in there, found out that they were all smoking, I call ‘em all into the classroom and I talk with them about what they were doing, kind of determine who was and what they were doing. So, at that time, you could physically paddle students with a witness. So, I determined that I was gon’ paddle them. I forget who I got to witness, I got a teacher to come and witness. And I recall making probably two or three swats each, all the same. And one of the kids find out the next morning, he went home and told his father. So, I was in the classroom the next morning and this student came in kind of outta breath, “Mr. Jenkins! Mr. Jenkins! Mr. Jones needs you in the office!” So, I forget now what I did to get someone lookin’ over my class. I went down to the office, and so this man was there. It was a White man. Mr. Jones never seemed to lose his cool. He kind of said, “Mr. Jenkins, this is Mr. So-and-So and he’s here about an incident yesterday where he say you paddled his son.” I said, “Yes, I certainly did.” This man was really, you could tell he was… So, we talked about it for quite a while. And at first, he was just, I mean—it was no logic. But we stayed the course and following it got to a point where he recognized that this was something in the best interest of your son. But he said this to me finally after a period of time of comments by Mr. Jones and myself. He said, “If he misbehave in the future, would you let me





know but don’t you paddle him.” In the future, you let me know and don’t you paddle him. Now, that wasn’t school policy. So, we didn’t make no agreement that that was the way that was gon’ end. But it got us to a point of closure on the meeting. Mr. Jones, after this man left, Mr. Jones said, “I’ll share something with you.” He called me Whitfield, he never called me Mr. Jenkins. Mr. Jones called me Whitfield, I’ll never forget the feeling. Until he passed, he called me Whitfield. And he said, “I let you know something. He’s a member of the Ku Klux Klan.” He told me, and then he went further to tell me he lived out in the forest and went on and on and on to what was going on. He said, “That’s why he was so angry.” He really didn’t believe in this race thing. And he was in it. He told me that. So, I always kind of carry that as an Osceola experience. But I had some great experiences at school that helped me to this day on race issues. And I tell a lot of people today, I benefitted. Teachers are struggling today. If you really was able to get out into the school community and see some of the things that are happening on race matters that are in some cases destroying teachers and educator’s careers and some decisions their making, and then the backlash is coming. It is because they’ve avoided and the district has avoided preparing them for this unique experience. There’s a belief that people want to—Race is not a factor. It is a factor, it has always been a factor. Many of your teachers would have been better prepared if you had a formal training experience to prepare them before you put them in the pressure cooker. Same goes for the administrators, et cetera. You’ve got ‘em out there today, you got ‘em believing that there is nothing and they are running into a brick wall and then they lose their concentration, they lose their decision-making, their focus, and you’ve





got fear and all this stuff, confusion, all combined in it. Because I had some good experiences and some of ‘em came—I was coaching the football team. Assistant coach.

H:   At Osceola?



J:  At Osceola under Coach Bloodsoe, he was the head football coach. And then these kids probably at first, the White kids had never had experiences of a Black person. I was coming from FAM. So, sport seem to have a way of being ahead of the rest of the institutions—

H:   Kind of like the military.



J:  Yes. I kind of engaged some of those kids real early. My voice, my discipline, my expectation, my praising, my motivation, my showing them how to be successful, working them hard. Real early I developed some relationships. Different in that environment and with the parents and the rest of the school in that environment that I was in the classroom. And there’s some of those kids to this day that are all over. The young man that’s clerk of the court here, David Eskrum, been clerk of the court here for years, he was one of my students. The young man that’s number two man in the sheriff’s department, Robert Douglass. Robert Douglass was one of my students there at Osceola and on the football team. A number of those kids, they see me today and there’s such a positive response in terms of they felt the impact I had on their life. Now, this is [19]67-[19]68, and we’re in 2019 now. Some of these people can’t get this response from students because of the unprepared— how they go into it. I love that these kids look at me. My mindset was that I was there, I want these kids to do well. I want ‘em to succeed. And I think I brought with





me the expertise in training as good as anyone for what they were trying to do there. David Eskrum, he’s been clerk of the court for twenty-some years here. And I think he’s made a decision he’s not gon’ run for this next term again, when I last talked with him, I caught that. He had talked about the Osceola experience and all.

H:  I’m having three words jump out at me, I’m hearing fairness in talking with this parent, perhaps with talking with all students, whether it’s on the team. I’m hearing respect. And I guess the skill I hear, maybe it comes from a lot of experience, maybe it’s the military, maybe it’s what you learned from Coach Gaither—I’m hearing diplomacy. In other words, you’re dealing with an irate parent that you find out later is a member of the Klan, you’re standing up for yourself as your daddy taught you to stand up for yourself, you’re not giving any ground, but you’re treating him with respect and you’re using all these diplomatic skills that I’m sure you had to learn as a leader in the military to deal with that situation, and in doing so like those folks were for you, you’re setting an example for how you deal with those kind of situations. Is that a fair analysis?

J:  I believe you’re right. And I never really tried to dissect and look at this as you would in a laboratory. What I find out—it’s amazing what I find out. A lot of times, I find interesting things in my life when I—sometimes I distance from it and can reflect without being in the moment. In the moment, sometimes I’m just doing things. But when I’m able to reflect, I see, you know, why? Because over here you had some experiences that was unique. It wasn’t generally soft stuff. You were in some difficult, challenging situations. They were not easy, and you didn’t run away





from ‘em. You addressed them. I have so many—if you look at, generally speaking—I think you can relate to this, there are very few Black persons that consciously put themselves in a position to be dissected, to be examined, to be publicly commented on by White power structure. If you talkin’ about something that basically weeds out or separates, if you look back over the history, large populations of Black persons stay on the safety square, they don’t venture into the terrain or risk taking on race matters. In particular, if there is any signal of negative consequences—the people who live in this community, it’s few people that wake up and says, ‘We gonna go down here and inquire and challenge the county an d challenge the city about something that we think is not right.” And for some reason or another, I had the experiences—in some cases, it wasn’t that I consciously went out to do it. For instance, my school situation—I needed a job. And when it came out some kind of way, the job, Whitfield, is at Osceola. Do you want it or not? Now, I knew that that was a predominantly White, aristocrat school. I knew the environment that I’m conscious of the environment during that time. I could have said, “that’s not for me, I’m outta here. I’m not going there.” But I went. I went and as a result of the totality of the experiences, some negative, positive, and in between, I left there after two years with something in my bank for the future. Don’t know where it’s gonna come up but I left there with something very, very solid.

	H:	And left there and went where? J:	For the rest of my—as I move up.

	H:	That’s what I mean, what was your next stop?





J:  My next teaching job I went to Howard. After, and this is what got me, [19]67- [19]68, [19]68-[19]69 at Osceola, those two years. There is a job that appeared— and I’m teaching science and math. Okay, not physical education. My degree’s in physical education. A physical education position opens up at Howard Elementary [19]69-[19]70. A new principal named Rudy Bedford. Howard Elementary is still the last of the Black schools. The federal government is saying to Marion County— remember I told you they gave them—Okay [19]67-[19]68 federal government in Sally and Bradshaw, [inaudible 3:19:00] They come in here and they tell Marion County School System, “You will integrate. You’re under mandate to integrate. We gon’ give you this first year, volunteer, come out with a plan of teacher assignment, student assignment. But now we gon’ be monitoring, we gon’ come visit, we gon’ ask for information and we are gonna come in. Now, if you fail to do it on your own then we are gonna come with a mandate.” That was the kind of edict they were under. So I come to Howard Elementary and the federal government finds out you’re not where you should be on this school in terms of student assignment. You’ve got too many Black students and too few White students, that’s the situation at Howard Elementary. But I come there and I teach three years teaching physical education. Okay. I recall the staff was pretty well integrated, they had a White principal, quite a few White teachers, not like my situation with only two Black teachers at Osceola. You got quite a few White teachers as Howard Elementary. But the student population was just about ninety-something percent Black. So, that’s where I come in. So now, I got different dynamics over here. And remember, I’m in the big system I’m not just there. I’m in the big system here. So, I’ve got my





two years of experience from Osceola that’s gonna be with me the rest of my life in dealing with issues, in particular race issues. So, I did leave that system. I go to Mobile Oil Company, get salary, and then go back into my first teaching salary of my contract. I signed a contract for fifty-seven hundred dollars, my first teaching job at Osceola. And I’m recognizing there, this teaching thing is not what I thought it was gonna be. I thought the teaching thing was gonna be it, and then when I looked after five years, this thing is not there. So, I get an opportunity to go to corporate world. And I go and have an opportunity with Mobile Oil Company, salary worked out, thirty-seven thousand dollars first year.

H:   Now what was your position there?



J:  Marketing representative. They have an extensive training program. I needed—it was about a year, a little over a year to get through all the training programs. And you had to kind of go to the location, Philadelphia or Atlanta. They had another finish in Atlanta, but Lauretta and I decided that that wasn’t the life that she wanted, she didn’t want to go on the road so I came back.

H:   Was that fully integrated at that point? Mobile Oil?



J:   Well, the big company, I can’t tell you they were global. I never really looked at their overall, but they were doing what a lot of corporations were doing at that time was dealing with diversity in terms of kind of making sure that they were. So, I think I was on the front end of their—

H:  That’s what I was wondering. In other words, they were integrated but perhaps in positions like yours maybe not as much, so—

J:   I’m training. Marketing training is down on me, you coming in.





H:   Mmhm.



J:  Okay, so you know how probably the way it was. You go up there, it was less and less at that time. I don’t know today. And I do this just sometimes to help myself, I go on the Google corporations and websites and click on different things to kind of just determine. I did this with Publix. I wanted to—I had a unique situation with Publix a few years ago when Publix did not have one Black employee.

H:   That hit the newspaper.



J:   I was part of the state NAACP that met with Mr. Jenkins, the original owner before he died on that issue. And he told us, “This company has a policy that you have to start as a bagboy and work your way up, and that’s why we don’t have any Black employees.” And so there was a conversation, but we had a legal person sitting in there for us and it was, “Well, we’ll see you in court.” There was some subsequent meetings, they hired a first young Black guy, I got his business card right here. Matter of fact, let me show you while I tell you. First Black employee that was hired by Publix. That’s him right there. The next meeting that we had down there, this young man was there.

H:   Lee Brunson.



J:   Lee Brunson. This is back in the [19]80s. And we were meeting in Lakeland. H:  That’s the corporate office, isn’t it?

J:   Yes. They brought this young man forward. He was not the position that he have on here as the recruiting manager, he was not. He was what Mr. Jenkins said, as a bag boy, the first Black hired. But very quickly, because of this threat of a lawsuit, and they promoted him to recruiting manager. And my reason for looking on the





website, I wanted to get the community relations person that they have and I want to share to them the early phases of the NAACP meeting. Because now they are very integrated. You go to Publix right now; you see a lot of people of color working.

H:  Was that also—they also had a gender discrimination. Is that with the NAACP as well?

J:  No, a separate law firm had that action. And since then, they’ve had a second gender lawsuit. This was the first one with the Florida State Conference of the NAACP. And met with Mr. Jenkins, I’ll never forget, the original owner, and he told us how he started Publix. He told us in this meeting, there was another store before he started Publix, it was right in the area where he lived. And he went to the store to try to cash a check. Mr. Jenkins said he went to the store and they would not cash a check for them. And he then said, “I’m going to start a store right next to you.” And that’s when he started Publix. That’s what he told us.

H:  Okay, so you come back from Mobile Oil with, let’s say, encouragement from Lauretta, your wife, who thought you needed to be back in Ocala.

J:   Rather than moving from place to place and she’s chasing me, yes. H:   You come back to Ocala, then what happens.

J:   I’m back, Mobile Oil Company say to me, “We’ll continue to pay your salary until you find another job.” That was the essence of what they said. So, I was back here probably three months, and I’m not working, and I said, “You know what, Mobile was overly generous to me. They didn’t have to do this. I need to get out and get me a job.” So, I wasn’t too inspired about going back to the school district because I remember that fifty-seven-hundred-dollar contract. And there was a young lady





named Jessie Swift, she was in education, she was teaching in the education department at the women’s unit. And she was a member of our church, she met Lauretta, mentioned, “They got a position open.” And so, I went up there kind of just nonchalant and a man named Dave Hennie, he was the education supervisor for the women’s unit. And that’s who I interviewed, and they hired me on the spot.

H:  And I think I’m gonna stop right here because I think we have most of that on the other interview. I wanna go back because I don’t know what your time frame is. I wanna go back, let’s go all the way back to Bethlehem. Lauretta, your wife told me a little bit about your brother. It sounds like you had a brother that ended up at Dozier.

J:   Yes.



H:   So, his situation and yours at some point, whether it was a stroke of luck or whether it was what other folks saw in you, whether it was coincidence. Somehow, his life took a different turn, at least for a while. Can you tell us a little bit about that?

J:  Well, that goes back to the beginning at family. My mother, before she married my father, was married to my oldest brother father, his name is Jeff Patterson. My mother name was Rosalie Patterson. I was not born then. My brother was born in 1934, I was born in 1940.

H:   So this was not one of the four brothers, this waws the older one.



J:  This was my oldest brother, the only one that’s remaining alive today other than myself. So, his daddy passed away real early in his life. I don’t know exactly how old Ezel was. But then my mother married my daddy, okay, so she’s now married to Boss Jenkins Senior.





H:  With one child, and his name again was? J:  Ezel Patterson.

H:   Ezel. Okay.



J:  Okay, and I later kind of picked up on this as I grew older that my daddy been a disciplinarian and with some other kind of behaviors. I don’t know how he came off as a father to Ezel, but when I got old enough, determined that Ezel was running away from home frequently.

H:   From Bethlehem.



J:   Yeah, the home he was living in out there. And he got picked up a number of times by juvenile—because I guess the way back during that time, Ezel run away from home, my dad or somebody would report to whoever the authorities was and they would pick him up and do what they do. They’d bring him back to the house, then Ezel would be gone gain. And some of the times that he was running away, he was sometimes breaking in some homes there in the community. Well, eventually there was a decision made where they confined Ezel to the Marianna School for Boys—that school that’s getting so much—

H:   The Dozier School, Arthur Dozier School.



	J:	He was there for years. I don’t know the year he went there.



H:  Do you remember it happening as a child? Do you remember when he was taken away?

J:   I can’t remember specifically that time. I remember, as I said, when they would pick him up here I never have any vision of where they kept him, whether he was at the jail, whether they’re a juvenile center. But I remember him, picked up, he





would be missing, then he would come back to the house and he would leave again. It was repetitions. And then there was a period where—it’s not clear in my mind where they sent him to Dozier. Now, I recall that that period that he spent in Dozier was for years, it wasn’t like a year or two years. When he got out of Dozier, Ezel probably was seventeen or eighteen, close to eighteen years old.

H:   So, you still would’ve been at home at that point?



J:   Yes, I remember the day after all these years of being in Dozier, we were in the field at the far end of the field. We were picking peanuts and they come in from over here, they come off of 326. There’s a road come by the house and then you come up to the field. I remember kind of sitting on a crate and seeing this person coming up towards where—there was a group of us, I don’t know all the people who was up there pickin’ peanuts but it was more than just myself. The group of us there picking peanuts, and this person was coming, walking up. And he was in a brown kind of—it wasn’t a uniform. Brown outfit, shirt and it was the same color. But when he got there, that’s who it was. When he reached us, it was Ezel. He came up, he just spoke, and he sat down and started picking peanuts there.

H:   Immediately started picking peanuts?



J:   Yeah, and he’d been gone for years. I remember that.



H:  Do you remember if your dad or anybody else ever went to visit him there? He was totally separated?

J:   Yes.



H:   He was so far away—



	J:	I don’t think any of us, including my dad, ever visited him during this time.





H:  Or had any idea when he was coming home? J:  No. No.

H:  And all of a sudden he shows up and the next thing you know, you’re picking peanuts together.

J:   Yeah. Yeah. And I remember that day—



H:   And so he’s seventeen or eighteen, did he then stay home for a while?



J:  No, let me tell you what he did. He came, he stayed—and I can’t remember how long he stayed there in the house with us—but remember, he’s seventeen or eighteen.

H:   How much younger, again, were you than he?



J:   Okay, I’m born in [19]40, he’s born in [19]34, so that’s six years.



	H:	So you’re only eleven or twelve then at the most? Or ten or eleven at the most?



J:  Right, and so here’s what I remember. Shortly after, I don’t know, he start—there was this migrant group, a family, that was some kind of way, he got connected to them. They were moving from their area across the state, going all the way to New York.

	H:	Following the crops?



J:   Yes. And shortly after he got released, he got connected to this family. And that was the life. He followed this family. The man that owned it that was the businessman that was in charge, he had this busses and he had this—probably, if you read about migrant labor in Florida, the Black people that was in charge of these crews, they had this business—it was like a business to them. They go to these locations, they had housing, they had what kind of housing they needed for





all the people they had. Sometimes they would set up in these locations, storefronts with products that they could sell these migrant people. They would make longstumb and these workers would sometimes, when they made money they paid back, probably interested. They had a whole system. So, the man who had this crew, his name was Ward, W-A-R-D. They call him Rip, first name, most people called him Rip.

H:   And he was local? Or no, he was not local?



J:  He was really from Sarasota, [inaudible 3:38:38] Florida. And so here’s Bill. Another guy involved with a key area—we didn’t remember at that time. I didn’t know about all these stops that they were making between, but the place they would talk about going was New York. And they’d go to New York, they was picking apples. That was the big product. Now, they had some other farm things up there they did. But they would leave Manatee County based upon season crops. Sometimes they’d stop here in Ocala and they were picking celery up in Island Grove. There’s a place on 301, 441, like you’re going to Jacksonville where the historical mark—

H:   Marjorie Kennan Rawlings.



J:  Where she from, Island Grove. Across the road on 40 back on there is some muck lank. Celery grows very good in muck.

H:   And you say cerary?



J:   Celery. C-E-R-A-R-Y. That you cut—



	H:	Oh, celery. Right. We pronounce it different, okay.





J:  So they would be here in Ocala for that season. Okay, now that would be—Ezel was in his home area when they were here.

	H:	And that’s when you would see him?



J:  Yeah. But my other brother, let me tell you what had happened. After Ezel start going—we call it following the season—Ezel would get with the Ward family. He would go to New York. And then, as they finished what they did in New York, they would start moving back south at different locations. As I told you, I can remember them stopping here in Ocala for periods of time. The celery was going on in Island Grove and I guess he would have those contract there and then they would move. They would end up back in South Florida, home now is in Sarasota, Brayton, Talabast. That’s where the Wards are. That’s their home. The Wards are responsible. Mr. Ward, he was obviously during that time a person that was well off from having this business, this business entrepreneur thing, that he had his children—he had a group of children—he’s putting them in college, okay. His children. Now these other workers that are working for him, they’re coming from a situation different than his children. But they following him, because he’s my second brother.

	H:	Which one was he?



J:  Boss Jenkins Junior. He drop out of school and start following the season too, going with Ezel and Rip up and down. I forget how many years he did, but here’s what happened. The Ward family took to Ezel and pretty much adopted him. So he never really made his home back here. They would go, Sarasota. He start attending church there in the church, Mount Tabor Missionary Baptist church is in





Talabast, that’s the Wards’ church. The Wards are the big family that probably constructed the church, they are the key leaders in the church. He got a son that’s a dentist, Mr. Ward, named Billy. Ward, right back in the church he’s got a dentist’s office. He got a sister named Virginia, she worked for HR, she might be retired now. They are all in that church. But here’s what happened, my brother attended that church—

H:   What was it called?



J:  Mount Tabor, T-A-B-O-R. H:  Right.

J:   He start attending that church as a layperson, he moved up in that church and he has been the pastor of that church since 1976, and he presently is the pastor, uninterrupted. Matter of fact, two weeks ago he lost his wife, Lenel, and we went down to the funeral. That’s where he met her, as they were on the season together.

H:  Let me clarify this one thing that’s on my mind here. Rip was—he was a Ward or somebody that worked for the Wards?

J:  No, he was the top, whatever you wanna call it. He was the man that owned the business.

H:   For the transportation? For running the busses?



J:  For the whole business of these workers, moving these workers across all of these states, he was the top person in charge of it all.

H:  And who were the Wards? J:  The Wards was his family. H:  That’s what I meant.





	J:	He was Rip Ward. Rip is probably a nickname, he probably has another name.



Everybody called him Rip.



	H:	But he was with the Ward family, that’s what I wanted to clarify. J:	Yeah, he is the—what you call the top person of the family?

	H:	And these were all African Americans?



J:  Yes, yes, yes. And so, my brother, they kind of adopted him. He lives in Sarasota, that’s where his home is at. The church is in that area down there, Manatee County and Sarasota kind of right up to each other. The church is really so close, it’s not in Sarasota. It’s so close, it’s in Talabast. It’s another little sub-city and it’s right on the line of Manatee and Sarasota, the church. But he lives in Sarasota, my brother and their family for all these years. But the significant thing, you asked the question, was if you look at the phenomenon of his early life and that incarceration and then the transformation that he would be a minister today, during the time, [19]76, twenty-five is twenty-four---in 1934, forty-three years. He been pastoring that church.

	H:	Since 1976?



J:   Yeah, for forty-three years he been pastoring that church, so that’s something that I will always kind of know. And knowing how tough it was for him in those early years and the fact that he has been able to overcome all of that.

H:  Another man that has a story to tell. And inspired along the way with who knows what. I think we have probably taken as much of your time—probably more than your time you were thinking of offering us, but it also sounds like your brother would





be a good person to catch up with if he were available. He’s got a story of his own and his own mentors.

J:  He could write an inspiring—if his life was put, it would be a best seller. [Break in interview]

H:  We are continuing with our interview, we took a little break there. We were talking about when you first were offered the position at the correctional institution, and you talked in the earlier tape about how you got that position and the folks involved, and you told us about at least one young man that you were influential with. You didn’t find out until later exactly how influential you were. I guess a couple questions come to mind, and we may have covered this before in the first tape but just as you described the experience of going into Osceola as one of the first two African American teachers, going into the correctional system, which you describe as, I guess, the last major government institution in Florida that was integrated, what was that experience like? What do you remember about that experience that relates to the whole situation of integration and being on the cutting edge of major change?

J;  I guess when I look at my entry into the Florida Department of Corrections in employment in 1972, prior to my going into that agency, I probably had more memory of the negative things, such as it being a chain gang of the old days of segregation and the horror stories of the abuse of inmates to include all of the questions surrounding capital punishment and the disparities of how that agency operated. I had different—

H:   Had you ever seen chain gangs?





J:  Yes. When I was small, I can remember that they used to work prisoners aside the roads. Many of the roads were not developed like they are today, and that was a primary work activity for inmates. And so, there were work crews in the areas that I lived. I remember the situation that they would be sometimes chained together by their ankles.

H:   And you remember seeing that?



J:   And I remember seeing those experiences. I also remember a couple times out in my area where a prisoner would escape, and they would be chasing them with the dogs. I kind of remember some specific situations where that happened out in my area. And my dad had a lot of sharing about the chain gang, as he referred to it. One of the things that he shared with me, the prisons had many different that they sometimes ingenuity to try to escape and get away. One way, I remember that he said that the prisoners used to take and cut holes in their shoes and put red pepper, as much red pepper as they could in the shoes so that when they would escape and they would be running, the amount of red pepper would come out and when the dogs—red pepper was very, very irritating. And the dogs would attempt to smell that. And the prisoners had that as one of the antics that they would use sometimes to help ‘em escape. And he also talk about—and I think it’s pretty evident from movies and other things that they would try to get to some water and travel in the water in order to bathe their scent from the dogs. I remember those sharings that come from him.

H: Any personal experience? You said you remember a few incidents. Do you remember any incidents in your lifetime where that happened in your area?





J:  I remember inmates escaping and running away in the area sometimes and we would see the person, the person would pass in the areas that we would be in and then there would be a short time after the person staff would appear—

H:   With the dogs?



J:   Yes.



H:   Okay, that’s what I was wondering.



J:  I remember a number of times seeing that situation. H:   Would that have been escapes from Lowell then?

J:  Well, it was hard because you couldn’t tell where we couldn’t have no way of telling the location that that prison gang was coming from, whether it was from Lowell, and sometimes they had stockades here in Ocala.

H:   When you say stockades, what do you mean?



J:   Where they had inmates that was housed—the county used to have what is—if you go out on 17th Street—

H:   Oh, out on Maricamp?



J:   Maricamp road, those block buildings, inmates—if the judge gave you ninety days in the sentence, the inmates used to live out there.

H:   And some of the work crews would come from there?



J:  Yeah, yeah. You couldn’t tell specifically kind of when those work gangs, where exactly they were coming from. But in most proximity, they were coming from the closest prison in that area.





H:  So go on back, when you were hired and offered that job, you had at least a mental history of how African Americans were treated within that system from chain gangs and stories your dad told you.

J:  Exactly. When I went to work in there, there was a period by the federal government to emphasize what they call the word “correction,” became a terminology, and it coincided with there was a federal effort that had drifted down to the states of providing programs and training for rehabilitation. That was the next tine that they used rehabilitation of inmates. And there was kind of a parallel of views by different folks, politicians and others, some that believed that prisons were for punishment and not intended for rehabilitation. There was another group of ideas that would say that many of these people are going to be returning to society and they raised the question of how would you prefer them to come back if they’re going to be living among you. So the federal government at one time budgeted for staff and programs in prisons. When I went in in [19]72, that was on the front end of that philosophy.

	H:	And you were hired as someone to be involved in the rehabilitation effort?



J:  The formal education. That was the point at which they actually had formal education departments within the prison organization structure along with staff, specific staff. And that’s when I came in.

H:  So the positive philosophy that you could identify with was there, but you still had the existing power structure and the same employees that had been there for all of these years.





J:   Yes, and so that was really a challenge, to know how to come in as an employee or administrator and brandish yourself so that you felt that you were serving the agency as well as serving the employees and the inmates. It was a real challenge to kind of find a way that you could position yourself in a way. And also, society. You also had the people in the community, what was their expectation of the department of corrections and what people should be doing?

H:  And the employees who had been there for a number of years had been there under the punishment system and the punishment philosophy and here you were coming inside from the outside with the good wishes of the federal government but not necessarily what they were looking for themselves.

J:  Exactly. And so, that became a very regular conflict, if you would call, between those two opposing views and philosophy. But interesting, I can recall some—I was there long enough to actually make some determination as to whether or not rehabilitation works. I was placed and I was just given some opportunities to go to classes and programs where people who had done great studies in research—I’ll never forget, the one program area that I came into staff training that I thought was dynamic was the requirement of teaching race and diversity to corrections staff. And I remember an exceptional experience that I had where I was required to go to a six month program that was taught by a professor at the University of Georgia, Dr. Jack Blakeman. He taught that course and it was a real intense course and it prepared us to come back and teach a variety of race courses to correctional staff.

	H:	You’re teaching diversity to your own staff when you return?





J:  Yes. And not just the staff there at the institutions but in many cases the diversity course was required at the regional levels and as well as our central office level in Tallahassee. Everyone had to take a certain amount of diversity. So, I remember the implementation of the curriculum and the staff persons that was targeted to do that. It really required a great, great degree of knowledge and skill levels to be effective because there was so much resistance.

H:  And how did the resistance present itself? You mentioned conflicts. How did that come to the surface?

J:   Just in all varieties. Sometimes it was just outright rejection. I remember a group of us—and what they used to do, those of us that was in staff training, frequently we were in preparedness to teach the course we were put on a road plan testing a repetitive examination to see whether or not you were gon’ be consistent and you really could have the effect. And so, they developed a team. The Department of Corrections knew who their best people were. The central office people that was making a determination of the class group would, if they had a lot of high level executives they were gonna put together a team that they determined to be the best team. So I was part of the team that they had a class up at Rayford. There’s another young lady was teaching down at Lowell, she had moved up into security. She was a major in rank. She was very young. Her name was Shirley Louiston. She lived here in the city of Ocala and she was very sharp and smart. So, one of the ways that we used to teach is if we were in teams of three of four, there would certainly be parts of the curriculum we would each be assigned to so we were not all up at the same time. But we’d be somewhere in the area to support them if





needed, different things that we could do. So, Shirley was teaching a group of corrections officers up at Florida State Prison, that’s the major—

H:   [inaudible 4:03:18]



J:  And so they were—I think it’s old white offices. H:  And she was White or Black?

J:  She was a Black female. And Shirley was very—she had made rank because she had kind of pressed central office folks that this young lady is unafraid and she would tackle a bear and anything. So, they were very confident when they sent Shirley someplace to do this. So, Shirley was up and there was a topic where she, in making the presentation, she made a statement to these officers. Kind of an authoritative statement of change. You will change, or something. And it effected these officers so that they actually—

H:   Not what they wanted to hear. [Laughter]



J:  No! It was just like—remember I tell you about Castrol. A group of ‘em got up and walked out of the classroom.

H:   In the middle of class?



J:  Yes. And I remember it effected Shirley so much. She was standing behind a podium. The group had got up and talked out. It was obvious to Shirley that they were upset with her. And so tears began to form in Shirley’s eyes, and I was in a position to see.

H:   So you were in the room at the time?



J:  Yes, yes. And I later in dealing with Shirley and telling her, I said, “Shirley,” I said, “You know that hurt you so bad and that affected you so bad, you were crying like





a cat.” Now Shirley, later on, she said, “Mr. Whitfield,” she knew she was crying, “What is it the way a cat cry any different than?” I said, “Oh no, there’s a difference. When human beings cry, the water will form in they eyes and it comes right here to the apex and it drip down. When a cat cry, it balls up and falls right out. I told Shirley she was crying like a cat that day, but I tell you what happened. There was a White instructor that was named Ernie Van Ward. Before he was an instructor, he was a correctional officer up there with those guys, those same guys. And Ernie went out in the hall and he chastised those guys—And I mean in some of the strongest terms—and they all came back in and apologized to Shirley. So, that’s one of the experiences that I had with kind of a real dynamic.

H:  That’s when it came to the surface. Probably a lot of experiences that may not have come to the surface that you felt, but that was a situation where the conflict was out in the open.

J:   Yes. And there were, obviously, I told you about I was part of a lawsuit where I filed against race discrimination, a large group of officers, about three hundred, almost four hundred, actually was initially signed onto the lawsuit. That lawsuit was heard here at the federal courthouse in Ocala.

H:  Was that primarily for hiring practices or was that—? J:   Hiring and promotion.

H:   Right.



J:   And treatment.



H:   And promotion is what I meant.





J:  Yeah. And I have probably a lot of the transcript that took place, witnesses’ testimony because I was working so close with the lawyers. They provided me with a lot of that. So I today know what a large number of persons were testifying, both the plaintiffs and the defendants, kind of their testimonies as to what happened and the defense was the Department of Corrections, that was that. So, I had the pleasure of having that information and studying it to kind of gain a perspective away from the courtroom of what happened. I also had the abilities to—People that were successful, some Black people that were successful. There’s a young man that’s one of the first highest ranking Blacks in the Florida Department of Corrections from this area, his name is Sterling Staggers. He got to be as high as a regional director. He’s a warden and he got to be a regional director, may have been a regional director when he retired. He lives in Orlando but he is from a community over here on 200 called Jerusalem. He grew up over there, he went to Howard High School, graduated from Howard. And Sterling was one of the Blacks that had an accelerated promotion as he moved up in the system. I had the privilege of when he was chief correction officer at Sumpter Correction Institution, training there at Sumpter. And when he became the warden at both Sumpter and Lake correction institution, I was a training officer. So, those kinds of personal experiences I was able to share, because we spent time and had lunch together and he would share to me very openly, honest, some of his thoughts and ideas.

H:  You had shared last time we were together your experience with a gentleman who became a barber. Grew up in Gainesville and attributed a lot of his drive and enthusiasm to make a life for himself, to his relationship with you and articles he





read about you while he was there. It sounds like most of your experience was spent training staff members. Can you think of other people besides that guy who, without trying to toot your own horn, you made a difference in their lives and maybe tell us about any of those folks, either staff or inmates?

J:  I remember an experience that probably brought me into more contact with a larger group of inmates. There was a period where the administration told us staff who would come and volunteer beyond their work hours to help lead certain specialized inmates’ programs. One of the annual programs that was endorsed by the executives in central office and they actually put a policy out was that their recognition every year of Black history. Central office endorsed it. They had what was called a policy guiding, encouraging local institutions to implement during Black history month—

H:   To come out to the prison and to teach?



J:  Yeah. What the prison did, normally they had no one. The staff that they had in the prison had no real contract to give this extra time, because this required usually time after five. So, the education staff was not obligated to come back, correctional officers. So some type of way at Marion Correction Institution they came to me, the inmates requested it, they knew of me, probably from some of the work I was doing in the community was the NAACP. And so for about three years I agreed to come and be the staff person that supervised them for their Black history programs.

H:   Coordinated the whole program?



J:  Yes, with the inmates. But a great portion of it was for the inmates to plan their program, what they wanted.





	H:	Oh, they planned the program themselves? J:	Yeah.

	H:	Wow.



J:  Yeah, they planned it but they wanted a staff person, Department of Corrections and the institution, they wanted a staff person to assist them to make sure that what they did was gonna meet approval and not run in counter-conflict with security or any other things. You had the policies that you had to be knowledgeable of when you accept that role. But the other thing, when you accept the role, you had to be dependable to attend, to come back and meet with them in their planning, which was quite a bit of time. Okay, the planning. And sometimes, part of what they wanted an outside speaker to come to the program. Well, to be able to get that all in place with all of the prerequisites it requires, the staff person were in a better position than the inmates to get approvals and communications and that, so that was the role. So I did about three of the Black history programs. Three years of that. The institution got recognized, I got letters of commendation from the warden. It got state recognition for the programs that we did, and in that role, I met a large number of inmates. Many of them names I’ve forgotten, some of them got released and contacted me and—

	H:	Came back after the release and contacted you?



J:  Yes, yes. They met me in that role and got to know me. They went on out, had different kinds of successes. There’s a young man who is from this area; he’s a plumber. He lives in this area. His name is Isaac Wilson. And he went to Fessenden. So, I met him. He’s down here since he’s been out and got a very





successful plumbing business. He’s been here actually and did plumbing work here at this house. So there’s a number over the years. I can’t remember all of them, but a lot of them I had informal communication. Because, as you said, my work was staff. But if you work in a prison, it’s very difficult not to have an informal relationship with prisoners because there’s so many roles that they—for instance, the building that I conducted training in, they were going to clean it up. In many cases, they were available to help set up equipment, to do all kinds of duties. So even if you were not in an official role where inmates were your primary responsibility, you had secondary ways.

H:   And it’s amazing just showing respect to folks that don’t get respect a whole lot.



That in itself can make a difference.



J:  Yes. And it took a lot of skills because there is a great component on the part of inmates to manipulate staff. And so, you want to make sure that as these different circumstances present themselves for your role that you try to do the best you can to convey to inmates that you are not gullible and tempted to that. So, it helps you if you get off to the right start with them. They know that, “Hey, the guy is serious, he doesn’t play any games. But you know what? If you’re straight with him, he’ll do what he can to support you.” You build that and it goes out. We had a thing about the inmate network, they got a better network of communication than anything we could put together. [Laughter] And so, most of us that worked in the system pretty much there’s an agreement that these guys, in order to get where their trying to go and what they’re trying to do, these guys work real hard at trying to get, you know. So I was lucky. I had military background and that helped me to deal with that. I





had the athletic background, discipline and everything. And so, some of that was natural. I didn’t have to drum it up just because I was in a prison environment.

H:  And you were being yourself, following through with the values you learned from your father and from your coaches and from the folks in the military, I’m sure. And your principles—How about staff? So, clearly you were in good standing with a lot of the inmates. You also had to deal with staff. We talked about some training situations. How about staff on site?

J:  Look at probably one of the great lessons I had, I think now I’m able to certainly go back and reflect in the roles that I had as a classroom teacher and the people I worked with there. The people who were my directors and the different structures that you had, because when I was a classroom teacher, there was an education department.

H:   And you were a classroom teacher teaching what? I’m not sure we got that.



J:  I taught, for inmates, I taught math and science. Same I taught as Osceola when I was there. But I only taught one year there.

H:  Were these for inmates working on their GED or something? J:  Yes.

H:  Okay, and you taught math and science for them? J:  Yes.

H:   All right.



J:  And so from the education staff, you know it’s something about corrections. You had these different departments. The biggest department and the most serious one is security. But education is sitting over here. Security is over here. It’s clearly





known just by every employee who come to work, they’ll tell you the first thing you gon’ hear anyone in the process of hiring is that custody and security is first. You may be in education but I want you to know, everything else is sublet under custody and security. If you a teacher, your first priority is custody and security. And so they drilled that in you. And once you work in a prison you accept that and you know why. Very important. Now, sometimes corrections officers, you will find a group of them will take that and try to move beyond their boundaries in order to basically be superior or do something. It’s supposed to be an understanding and a balance.

H:   But in order to discipline they would go beyond that?



J:  And sometimes give other staff a hard time. And do that. So that element. So in education, the people I worked with for that period of time, for us to have a great— I see some of those that are still alive. I see them to this day, we have good memories to chat and reflect on. Then I moved into staff training, this was a more specialized, smaller group. Big all over state. And we developed a special relationship too. That was an important part over there. The executive staff, the secretary of the Department of Corrections and those people, now I believe that ultimately they knew of me because I happened to be in the news as an activist. Sometimes challenging the agency I’m working for. So I have to depend upon some of the other executive staff, who appreciate what I was doing, to kind of tell me what happened [inaudible 4:23:51]. They were not accustomed to anyone at my level—

H:   Bucking the system.





J:  Yeah, making a challenge. When I got to twenty-eight years, I tell people when I retired, “I never had a disciplinary action in my personnel file for the entire twenty- eight years.” And I been in some heated situations with them. But in short answer, that part of relationships today, this is many—I’ve been away from the system now almost twenty years in retirement. A lot of my fellow—I wanna same teammates— have gone onto glory. Some of us still are left. And when we talk now, it’s very inspiring. Because we are part of a fraternity shared in something unique. I have so much reinforcement when you mention I been rewarded, I truly have had so many reach out that I sometimes never expected in terms of people conveying appreciation for something that I contributed to, something I did. A lot of times I never, at the moment, was looking at it that way. It just came out that way. I don’t know whether I shared on the other interview kind of when I had retired, but there was an inmate, there was a person who got arrested for DUI manslaughter here. He was a person from the community, he was a deacon in church, and what happened was on a Saturday morning he was in his vehicle—he was a farmer— and he was going to get some pigs. And he was drinking at the time. So, he stopped by the 7/11 Store, got him a six pack before he left from up in the Anthony area. Came into Ocala. Went out and got his pigs. By the time he got ready to go back, he drank that six pack. He went and purchased another six pack, drank it. Coming back from 27th Avenue west of 200, he got on 200. It was raining pretty hard. Cars bumper to bumper. And he was driving behind a long line of cars. Seven or eight cars in succession up in front of him, someone stopped abruptly and the next car did not see ‘em. So the next car went bam, bam, bam, bam! So he’s in





this succession of seven, eight cars: bam, bam, bam, bam! So at this time they’re not moving at great speed, it’s not serious. But what had happened with him, he had had a previous DUI. Now, he know the law enforcement is coming and he’s in this chain reaction. So, he panicked, and he decided he’s going to get outta there, he’s gonna speed away from there. But what happened was, the person in the first car, a White lady, she got out of her car and around the front and walked into the lane. The traffic lane. Here he decide to pull out and speed away from there. And he went right into that lady and killed her. And his vehicle went out of control there and some other person area, they grabbed the keys and so he now is in this fix. He go to court, he gets out of there, they give him life plus thirty-seven years.

H:   For DWI manslaughter?



J:   I meet this guy even though he’s from here and he married this lady from a family that I well known. I had not known him. And the reason I got to know him, he was incarcerated here in Dunbar about thirteen years and he’s up here in Marion and I’m walking through the compound one day, walking out. And somebody pointed him out, “That’s Whitfield,” he seen some of the advocating I’m doing. He call for me—

H:   He calls your name?



J:  Yeah, I’m walking out of the prison gate ready to leave for the day. He calls for me. “Mr. Jenkins!” And then he tell me who he is, “Jenkins, I’m blah blah blah and I’m married to Mr. Woods daughter.” Woods, this man is serving on the executive committee with the NAACP with me at that time. And he’s married to his daughter. And I know the family from Anthony. He tell me all of it. Well, he was desperate for





help. As we talk, a group of sisters—there’s a group of sisters that live in the Gainesville, Micanopy area. They come to the NAACP office. I’m sitting in the office one day and there’s a group of people come in from talking with him. They come to me and made kind of this, “Mr. Jenkins, he doesn’t deserve this kind of sentence.” It’s a plea for me, if I can help him. At this time, I’m looking at the situation not knowing anything. So, shortly thereafter another incident happened almost as if it was prophetic. Almost in the same place. A young White woman ran into a Black man that you must know, and panicked—

H:   Killed the Black man too?



J:  Yeah, he was dead. He was on a bicycle and she hit him with such a force that he lodged in the window. She drove six miles with him in the window to a location where her boyfriend was before there was any determination to call law enforcement. Killed him on the spot. His name was Tim Buddy, he got a brother that live right up here. And it turns out she had been a habitual drinker and what the other court—They gave her one year.

H:   DWI manslaughter? The same charge.



J:   Yes. One year. There’s a Reverend Goldman that was here, he was a lawyer but his license wasn’t active. He was active with the NAACP. So we got the information and started looking. We going to the parole hearing. The next parole hearing, this young man and we are going to—

H:   So he was already eligible for the parole? He had already served that many years. J:   Every time he come up.

H:   That’s what I mean. He would come up after serval years.





	J:	But it was told to us that the parole commission had it in mind never to let him out.



He had life plus thirty years.



	H:	Yeah.



J:  But we went up there to that next parole commission hearing and the news media had gotten that we were coming. And they had news media from England. When we walked in that building, it was cameras clicking from everywhere, Reverend Goldman and I. We had determined that Reverend Goldman was gonna make the presentation. Reverend Goldman had charts and diagrams side by sides of those two cases and you could see prison commissioners almost feeling like they had to go under the table out of shame, because we held the criminal justice system up in that they could not deny the facts of what they did. From there, they voted a decision to parole him. He got out. He’s up there going to chapel. His name is Clifford Gordon. He’s up there now. I talked to him about four months ago. So, that’s a situation that I also will remember. At that time, it was not internally criminal justice, it was external, but it had a nexus point to the correctional system.

H:   And a lot of your things are class action but this was just an individual? J:  It was.

H:  Well, I think we outta conclude our interview. I know you’re up in time. I had a few things I want to chat with you after the interview, but I wanna thank you again. I’m gonna call you Whitfield, Mr. Jenkins, thank you for your time today and I have a feeling a lot more stories behind these. I have questions, I know, that will come to me when we leave. You’ll have memories to come up. But I wanna thank you again for your time. I truly appreciate it.





	J:	I enjoyed it, Joe.



	H:	Thank you. [End of interview]

Transcribed by: Abby Lovett; September 7, 2021 Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, September 9, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, September 13, 2021