AAHP 407; Jones; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 407 Gail Jones

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Justin Hosbey on May 12, 2016 50 minutes | 27 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 407

Interviewee: Gail Jones Interviewer: Justin Hosbey Date: May 12, 2016



	H:	Today is May 12, 2016, and I’m here at Paradise United Methodist Church in the city of Alachua in Alachua County, Florida. And I’m here today with—

	J:	Gail Jones. I live here in Alachua, and my date of birth is September 24, 1953.



And I’ve been a member of this church ever since I was five years old, so basically—

	H:	Your whole life.



	J:	All my life.



	H:	Okay. Well thank you, Ms. Gail, and I look forward to talking to you now. So we usually like to start the interviews with a question to kinda get your memory jogged about, you know, the past and history. So if you could tell me, who’s the oldest relative that you can remember?

	J:	The oldest relative that I can remember is my Uncle Wilmer Brown. He’s still alive, and Ms.—well she passed couple years ago. He was like one hundred and—he’s one hundred and two, I think, when he died. [Inaudible 1:15] And they were all—a lot of the members that was here during the time of the church was because it was a lot of, mostly high-class teachers, so to speak. They were mostly teachers and professor Mebane that built the school over here—

	H:	Right. Mebane?



	J:	Yeah, He was Professor Mebane. He was a member of this church. His whole family was, and Miss Ira Lewis, she was the—I think she was the one that donated this property to the church. And I can’t remember Pop—we used to call him Pop Foster. He donated another piece of land to the church, and they were





all members of this church. And matter of fact, his girls are still living, but they live in Ft. Lauderdale. And they come up ever so often, mostly for funerals and stuff like that. But they still come up. And basically, my uncle is the oldest one that’s still living that help build this church. He was one of the builders of this church.

Matter fact, he built the education building, him and Mr. Howell. They were—they did the—after they got this church, they needed room ‘cause it was a prospering church, and they needed rooms for the kids to learn. And so they build the educational building back in the back. So the way they get—and the money that they received for this church—well we was small kids, and it was a smaller church over on—right there on the corner—and this building here stayed vacant so long because they didn’t have a lot of money to finish building it. And then when they finished building it, from what I understand, we wasn’t a part of the negotiating or how they negotiated the—how did we get involved with the United Methodist Church. But only thing I can tell you is what we read is that they merged in 1968 because it used to be called Paradise Episcopal Church—I think it was—Paradise Episcopal—I think it had “Colored” on there somewhere on there. Somewhere on there.

	H:	Was it the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church? The CME?



	J:	Yeah, yeah. It was the Colored Methodist Church, and it started out in Newnansville and then they came on to Alachua. They got this property right here, and that’s where we, you know—we’ve been going here—we was just small kids; we weren’t apart of the groundbreaking or nothing because we was just kids. We just knew we always came to this church. My mom made sure we





come down here every Sunday to church. So, but my mom—she wasn’t a member of this church. She was a Pentecostal faith. So, she went to the Pentecostal church. But she used to always send us here. She wanted us to be a part of everything, so we ended up being Methodist/ Pentecostal. We went to the Pentecostal Church five days a week. But Sunday come, we had to come back here to the Methodist Church. I ain’t understood it yet, but I think she wanted us to be a part of it all.

	H:	Yeah, she wanted to be involved.



	J:	You know, just serving the Lord. It doesn’t matter what denomination you are. But then we came upon this problem with the pastors. We could never—they wouldn’t—we could never keep a pastor here. They would—I don’t know what it was. But I know this past couple of years, we went—last year and this year, we’ve been facing the possibility if we didn’t get any membership in or either we had to keep the pastor that we got to keep the doors of the church open. And they asked us to start going out into the community and doing different things. We went out into the community. We tried to—well the people come. They come, but really they never come to the services. But they came to the like we do our soup kitchen, our movie night here. We did movie night and little, small different things, and one year we put on a program where we gave all—that was in 2013—we put on a Christmas program where we gave all the kids in the community Christmas gifts. I mean, you know, we didn’t have a lot of money, but we still, you know, we made it possible for us to give every kid that came—the





church was packed. But you know, a lot of things—it’s a lot of history here. We had Mrs. Welch. She was the music teacher.

	H:	What was her first name? J:	Thelma Welch.

	H:	Thelma Welch, okay.



	J:	Yeah, she was the music teacher for Mebane School. And she was also our music teacher for sixth—I mean the musician here for sixty years. And after she retired, we wasn’t able to find anybody that was, you know, that was willing to— but she had gotten where she couldn’t hardly say she can’t even remember the keys and stuff, where the keys at and stuff. But we did—it’s a lot of history in this church, especially when Professor Mebane—that’s where we all got started from—he started from here and then he decided he wanted to build that school up there, built Mebane School. And it was basically teachers here, a lot of teachers. We had a biology teacher Mr. Banks, Alvin Banks. We had Furman Welch; he was the principal over there in High Springs. We had—but all those people gone on now. And then we were left—like we never had anything to do with the business part of it, but when they left, it was dropped in our hands. And we were struggling trying to figure out what we need to do next, what we need to do now. And matter fact, Ms. Banks was a teacher. She taught at Douglass in High Spring. And Lee Arris was a teacher.

	H:	What was Ms. Banks first name? J:	What?

	H:	You said Ms. Banks. What was the first name?





	J:	Rosetta.



	H:	Rosetta Banks, okay.



	J:	Rosetta Banks. And then Lee Arris. And Miss Eunita Summers is Lee Arris’ sister. She was a kindergarten teacher, but she always came here till until she passed a couple of years ago. So it’s a lot of educational history in this church. A lot of educators would come to this church, and we had—and when we was growing up, I mean, this was the church to go to because they did a lot of things for the kids in the community, and we always gave out scholarships to colleges, Bethune-Cookman College mostly. And it was not much, but it was an assistant to help them in college, some of the students, some of the kids that went off to college. So, that was the only thing. And we never—I can’t figure out how we got in this situation because we were self-supported. We never asked the Methodist organization for anything. We was self-supporting. We didn’t need their money because—matter fact, every year we never missed a payment that we had to pay them every year like three and four thousand dollars a year just to be in the conference, so that’s why we can’t figure out how we got in the condition. And the reason we didn’t pay it this year because we was waiting to see what they were gonna do. We didn’t know whether we was gone keep the church open or what we was gonna do. But from what I understand, and what I can’t understand is that she didn’t—she just said the church will be closed as of June the 30th.

	H:	And who is he?



	J:	Sue Harper, the district superintendent for the North Central district, and Harry Hallman is the assistant district superintendent. He’s the pastor of Wesley United





Methodist Church in Gainesville, and he was the one that monitoring what we were doing, but then the day before Easter, we were supposed to have our regular soup kitchen. But due to the fact that my mom passed, well we had her funeral then. So he said that he came out, and there wasn’t anybody back here. And I said, Well you probably came and you probably didn’t see nobody in Alachua, but they was all at my mama’s funeral. So they all supposed to had to came out at least once a month; I think they came out three times, three times. Oh we’ll be back, we’ll be back. I said, How are we doing? He said, Y’all seem like you’re doing great. And then we knowed anything they had done called a meeting, said they wanted to meet with on us on January—May the 2nd. And she came in May 2nd, the district—the DS came in and said—they opened up the thing with a scripture coming from John—I think John—I don’t know exactly what scripture it was, but they came in there and they read the scripture. But the lady came in angry. And she told us this building was worth more to them sold than it is for us to have church. And she said she would build us a church if that’s what we wanted, and the first time last year when she told us, she said we could go to Mt. Pleasant, any of the churches up here, but she never said go down there to First United Methodist Church down here in Alachua.

	H:	And which church is that?



	J:	That’s the White church. First United Methodist, right there. And so we—but then we start working together and I mean—hey if they want this is—this is what we were saying—if they want this church, they can have this church. We don’t care. We don’t care. We just going—but then it came to the point where we realized





that this is out forefathers’ church that they built with their bare hands, and we needed to do something besides sit down let them people come and take this church from us, from under us. And she said that—she came she said—she said she accused of—how did she say it? She came in angry. First she came in angry and she said, Are you all don’t have any young people—ain’t nothing here but people over fifty years old. You don’t have any young peoples coming into the church. If it was left up to me I would have closed y’all twenty years ago. And she said, My church, I got over five hundred members in my church. And she said— and she stomped out the door. She got to the back of the church, she said, And another thing, the church will be closed June 30th, and I refuse to be called a racist again. So yeah, she came in, and I said, Well what’s the problem? Why are you so angry? After I said that, she just turn around and went on out the church, went on out the church. But basically, that’s where we’re at now. We don’t know whether they gone come take the church or whether they—but she stated that we was better sold than to stay open. But it’s a lot of history and a lot of educational teachers was here in this church, and we are the only ones that are left here struggling trying to keep it open. And matter fact, Paradise is the largest church, Black church, here in Alachua.

	H:	In Alachua.



	J:	Yeah, it’s the largest. And it’s also housed the evacuation folk for the school up here, for Alachaua Elementary. This is the place that—

	H:	They evacuate to.





	J:	Yeah, they evacuate. This is the church that was chosen for everybody to be evacuated to. So, you know, basically that’s one of these things that we got to fight—we got to, you know, keep fighting to try and keep it open.

	H:	Right, right. So I wanna know about, you know, your life and your upbringing.



Where were you born?



	J:	I was born here in Alachua.



	H:	Okay, okay. Were you born at home? Were you born in a hospital?



	J:	That’s a good question. I think I was born in the hospital. [Laughter] I think I was.



I’m not for sure. I wasn’t old enough to know. [Laughter] I think I was born in Alachua General. I think I was.

	H:	Okay. Who were your parents?



	J:	Nace Jenkins and Esther Jenkins. H:	Okay. How you spell Nace?

	J:	N-A-C-E.



	H:	N-A-C-E. Okay



	J:	Uh-huh. Jenkins and Ester Jenkins. And I am employed here at the city of Alachua in finance. I’m an accountant for the city of Alachua, and I finished out at Santa Fe in business administration and management. And this is my second job. I worked at Energizer out there for twenty-eight years, almost twenty-nine years and then—in accounts payable. And then after that, I went back to school, got my little piece of paper and then I went to—then I got a job down here with the city of Alachua. And I been there for thirteen years, and I got—I was married and I got out of that marriage I had two sons. But before, I had two kids outside





of marriage, and I got one son that went to school at the University, graduated from the University of Louisville, and I got one that’s still in college at Santa Fe Community College. And the other one he—they got they own business. They got a group home. And my daughter she passed in 1968, and I been raising her kids—they like twenty-three and twenty-seven. So I’ve been raising her kid and my grandson, so. And the thing was even Mr. Hollowan came and said they been doing the demographics for Alachua, and he stated that the Whites are getting richer and the Blacks are getting poorer here in the city of Alachua. And he said that but of course there isn’t any jobs here for young, Black kids. Most of them are either single parents or, you know, single parents or just, you know, they just don’t have a man in the house. So basically, it’s a poor city, most especially for Blacks. That’s why we can’t understand, you know, we been having the same amount of people for years, tending our own little business, then all of a sudden, they came to us and telling us they gonna close the doors. It was just kind of shocking. What did we do wrong? Where did we go wrong at? But still, we still trying to…

	H:	Right, right. I’m wondering, what do you remember about the church in terms of when it became part of United Methodist? How did that happen?

	J:	I can only tell you what I read… that the church merged with the United Methodist Church in 1968. I read where they—all the Black churches, all the Black churches came together and the Methodist Church—the Black Episcopal churches came together and became a part of the United Methodist Organization and how they—I didn’t see no contract, only thing I seen in the book of discipline





is that they would be—we would be under the umbrella of the United Methodist Church. That’s the only thing I ever seen. I haven’t seen anything outside of that. How we got to that point, I don’t know. I haven’t seen a contract or anything stating that hey, you all, you belong to us now. This church belong to us. I haven’t seen anything like that. Only thing I seen is that we got the deeds to this place, and the deeds is Paradise United Methodist Church. And we got old deeds where it first began to be, when it was first Paradise—

	H:	The Colored Methodist Episcopal?



	J:	Methodist—yes, Episcopal Church. And that’s the only thing we got and the only thing we know. And from what the information that Reverend Johnson— Reverend Johnson gave us all the information. He could tell you everything, when the churches merged, how they merged because he was the pastor of this church, and the only thing I think he probably—because he still active pastor—he probably won’t give you any information. Now, I don’t know he may and he may not. So, I don’t know.

	H:	Okay.



	J:	Yeah, so.



	H:	In terms of the pastors of the church, you said that Pastor Johnson was the first pastor?

	J:	He was the first pastor—



	H:	Can you tell me who—like as far as you remember—from the beginning, who were the pastors from beginning to now?





	J:	From the beginning. We got a whole list of the pastors, but I can tell you that… Reverend Banks, Mr. Banks’ dad. Reverend Banks was a pastor here. Mr. Welch dad was a pastor here, and that was way back in the days, ‘cause it [inaudible 19:28] and he died so. And I—only ones that I can remember, I remember—I’m telling you who I remember, but these here the ones that I used to know that was—I heard that they were the pastors. Okay, these is the ones that I remember: Reverend Gosslin, Reverend Ferguson, Reverend… Reverend Deyor, Reverend Dessue, Reverend Griner, Reverend Godbolt, Reverend Cheeks, Reverend—they may not be in the order that—and Reverend Willingham and… those are the only ones that I can remember.

	H:	Okay.



	J:	Yeah, they the only ones that I can remember. H:	And who’s the current pastor?

	J:	Yolanda Godbolt.



	H:	Okay Yolan—And how long has she been here? J:	I think five years. I think it’s been five years.

	H:	Okay, okay. So what’s her response been to the church and them coming and trying to close it?

	J:	Psssh. There wasn’t any response. She ain’t said nothing to me or cause—from what I’m gathering, all the information that those folks were getting was coming from her because like they asked us—cause when we had a bank account and we disclosed it—we didn’t disclose that there was another bank account. But he asked me where is that other bank account that you have. [Sigh] He didn’t know





that we didn’t have—he was told that we didn’t have church services in… Easter Sunday we didn’t have—yeah, we had Eas—but the pastor wasn’t here, so she didn’t know that we did—she thought we didn’t have a church service. So I think all the information that we’re getting—they’re getting—is coming through to her— from her. You know, cause I don’t think—it’s no benefit to her, you know, because she wasn’t raised in this community, and it doesn’t matter whether we close the door or not because I know one time she stated that, You can’t get rid of a pastor like you used to. You can go to the district superintendent, and they’ll get rid of a pastor. But we—she just didn’t—she wasn’t fit for Paradise, and I told her. And basically I think she might have got angry about that. I don’t know. I said, You’s a nice person, very nice person, but your ministry is lacking. And it is. I mean it’s… almost… But I have never heard her say anything about how we gone keep the church or anything. Everything that they’ve done was done in secret. We don’t know.

	H:	Right, right.



	J:	‘Cause she would go, she would meet with the—she would meet with the pastors. They would have a meeting every Monday, every Monday or Tuesday, one day, and I’m sure she knew what was going on because we didn’t know nothing. All we know was they getting ready to close Paradise, so.

	H:	Okay, well if we can go back a little bit, what is your earliest memory of the church?

	J:	Coming to church, listening at Ms. Welch play on the piano and every year, they would take us to some type of activity. Like, long time ago, it used to be Silver





Springs, they had a port park for Blacks only. And they used to call it Paradise Park.

	H:	Paradise Park! Yes, I remember.



	J:	Every year, we would go—they would take us to Paradise Park. Then after that, we stopped going to Paradise Park. Then we start going to Magnolia Lake. They would make sure that we did that every year, to go to one of those beaches for our summer break, but that’s the fondest memories I have and the teachers and—it was just, it was awesome to be a part of that. To me it was, I mean, you know, we just, we just enjoyed coming to Paradise. And my mama gave us a quarter every Sunday, and we put a dime in church, took the other fifteen cents on to the store.

	H:	[Laughter] Uh-huh.



	J:	Yeah, basically. But it was always memories here. H:	Yeah.

	J:	Yeah.



	H:	So what does the church mean to you?



	J:	It mean a lot to me. And another thing, it’s not a place—a lot of time people done lost the feel for what a church is. It’s about money now. Money, money, money, money. But it’s a place to worship and love worshipping the lord. That’s how I feel, you know. It means—that’s what I’m saying—it mean a lot to me to be able to come in the—you can go to your house and wor—cause the lady told us that. Y’all can go to your house and have church at your house with these little bit of people y’all got in here. But it’s not like coming to Paradise. Paradise is Paradise.





We been coming here for over fifty years, so you know, it mean a lot to us. But to me it’s just a good place to worship and serve the Lord.

	H:	So, if you think about, you know, some of the things that have been happening to the church membership, and how membership has kinda been dwindling a little bit the past few years, why do you think the membership has kinda been going down?

	J:	One thing is about our leadership. We doesn’t have very good leadership, and it’s like I told you, it’s about the money, you know. We got to preach, we got to preach. We gone—you gone have to pay me. And my pastor told us that anytime we, you know—we can’t pay the lawn man before we pay her because her salary is not negotiable. You got to pay her first, so and that’s what it’s about. It’s about money. The ol’ mighty dollar, you know. And we try so hard to try to serve him, get down there and pray, serve him, you know, and we had a gospel—our gospel group, we sing gospel music. But apparently, our pastor don’t like gospel music. She like hymns that we don’t know how to sing, and we sound terrible. [Laughter] I mean absolutely terrible, but the thing was we worked in the church. We enjoy what we did, matter fact, we would go out singing in the church, and we got burned out. I mean we got burned out cause every week were going somewhere, we were going somewhere. But then—and then after that, we haven’t had a pastor in there yet to come in there and say, Hey, I want this gospel choir back.

She said she told us to get out the pulpit, that she was gone—whatever song we sing, she gone sing a song. So, in other words, we don’t have a choice of how we serve the Lord here in this church, because it got to be her way or no way.





We can’t—she told us not to even raise our hands. Can’t nobody raise their hands up there but her. She’s the only one that can raise her hand to the Lord. And then she also told us that—and now you think now you were coming in this church, what would you think? And then she said that we were doing communion every Sunday. Every Sunday we did communion, and we told her we didn’t think that was right to do Communion—you get up there and commit yourself to the Lord one time, and as a Methodist way of doing it once a month. You come in and you do your communion once a month. But she had us come out here every Saturday setting up the communion table, setting up the communion table. And we say membership started sure enough started dropping off then because everybody say they ain’t doing no communion every Sunday. Soon one of ‘em say, I’m not setting up no Communion table every Sunday. And then you got people will start stop coming, you know, because when you go to church you wanna get something out of it. You want to come in—you might be down when you come in, but you wanna leave out feeling good when you come in here. And you come in feeling worse than you feel when you came in. It’s just that bad, so. But anyway, we trying and we tried to work with her, you know, we tried working with her. We really did. We tried working with her.

	H:	Okay, so do you have any pictures of the church? How when it was being built in the old church of any pictures?

	J:	Imma tell you somebody came here today and decided they wanted to clean up…

	H:	No.





	J:	They threw away all the Church records, everything. I mean everything. That’s why we don’t have anything no more than what we had way back—somebody had a book that we had, way back then. But they came in here and threw everything out. I mean everything. And then after they threw everything out, they left and they ain’t never come back. They ain’t never come back. They went and joined the church across the street. Cause we were upset about them throwing away all the history of the church. You know you always have the history in the church. You always keep the history in the church. But no, I don’t have any pictures. I don’t have any pictures.

	H:	Okay. So when you were growing up, how many members did the church have?



	J:	We had a pretty decent—I think about sixty or seventy members, yeah. It was pretty, yeah, it was pretty full.

	H:	And what was the connection between the church and Mebane?



	J:	Professor Mebane built Mebane School, and he was—his dad was a—see that was before my time. But I know Professor Mebane, all his children went to school here, so when they moved away, they also made it possible for whatever monies that they had, they donated it to this church because they, you know, because they know that he was one of the founding fathers of this church. But I never really, never—I think I was too young to know who Professor Mebane was.

	H:	Yeah.



	J:	And I always see his picture hanging up in there, but I ain’t know who he was. All I ever know was Professor Mebane, Professor Mebane. But I never knew him.





But all the—mostly all the teachers and stuff came here, principals and all of them.

	H:	Right. So were there any issues of racism or segregation related to the church? J:	No, no more than racial issue that—the racial statement that that lady said, that

DS just said that she would—cause she said, I refuse to be called a racist again. But our only thing that we questioned her was why are you closing all the Black churches? They seem to be closing all the small Black churches. You can’t have 100 members in the little ol’ small town. Alachua is a small town. And she said she got five hundred members. I say, I show wanna go to your church one Sunday and see them five hundred members. You the district superintendent.

You should have five hundred members, so. But that’s—no, I haven’t seen any, any racism in this church.

	H:	Okay, okay. So if you could tell me about, you know, your life growing up here in Alachua. And where did you live in Alachua?

	J:	I lived right up there on the hill, right down, leave here then go straight up to the hills. And we always lived up there, on the hill, all my life. I always lived in this community.

	H:	What school did you go to?



	J:	I went to Mebane. And I finished at Santa Fe, that was during integration. They integrated in 1970—yeah 1970 ‘cause class of 1969 was the last class to graduate, in January 1970 we got transferred to Santa Fe High school.

	H:	And that was your senior year?



	J:	That was—no, I was in eleventh grade.





	H:	Oh, eleventh grade.



	J:	Yeah, I was in eleventh grade. And the class of 1969 was the last class to graduate from Santa Fe—I mean from Mebane. And the class of 1970, in 1970, we all went to—we got transferred to Santa Fe High School ‘cause I finished in [19]71, so.

	H:	So what was that like going to integrated high school?



	J:	Oh man! We—oh! It was terrible, fighting every day. It was during the time when—we had to fight for what we wanted. And we thought we did ‘cause I remember the guy talking about some—one of the guys made a statement all he was so biggity and they say, Aw they just like fleas! If one jump on you, all of ‘em jump on you! He got a good butt beating that day. But yeah, we were in the zone. It was interesting because we never was exposed to the White schools, and that made a difference, you know. We was always—it was always all Black school.

We all Black. We never—all the way from kindergarten through twelfth grade, I guess for me it was through kindergarten to eleventh grade—we was never integrated. It was just all Black. And then when we got transferred to Santa Fe, it was a great change. I mean it was a change. So, but then the opportunity came where we thought about that we didn’t no longer have to have them old used books. We even had new books, access to new books and there learning—and I didn’t realize how smart I was until I got to Santa Fe ‘cause I ain’t do nothing at the Black school, to tell you the truth. But, you know, that was back then. It was interesting. [Laughter] Yeah.

	H:	Okay, so what are the other Black churches here in Alachua?





	J:	It’s a Black church on every corner, ‘cause they go right there— H:	What’s the name of them?

	J:	Saint Luke AME, [Inaudible 33:32] Welch, The Church of God in Christ right there; up here, Church of God By Faith; on this corner, going down the line, they got two Black churches that just came to Main Street in Alachua. One is the Church of God By Faith—I mean Church of God in Christ—and one of them is Outreach Ministry. And then you go a little further down there’s Antioch, Antioch Baptist Church. Then you come back, go further, there’s a Church of God in Christ. We got more churches in Alachua than you got in Gainesville.

	H:	[Laughter]



	J:	No lie. And then you come on down, there’s St. Matthews Baptist Church. Come on down another block, there’s St. Mary Baptist Church. Come on down another block, the Church of God in Christ over there in [inaudible 34:24], then there’s Bethesda, go another little block down there and Bethesda Outreach Ministry.

And it’s churches—it’s churches everywhere—then they got, come back up, you got—what’s the name of that church? Crusaders for Christ. And I think that’s it. We got more churches in Alachua than we got—than you got in your hand. We got a church on every corner. We should be for—we can [inaudible34:50].

	H:	So what’s Paradise’s relationship to other churches?



	J:	We all come together, mostly like I told you we do first—second Sunday, we all, all the churches come together. It’s called In Togetherness, and fifth Sundays we—there’s nine churches that come together on fifth Sundays, and they all United Methodist Churches. And we got, you know, they just—we just worship





together anytime we can get together. Anytime they have programs and stuff, we was always invited to the church to, you know, you’d be a part of the services.

And we had gotten where we no longer had a choir, so what did [inaudible 35:45].

	H:	So there’s a sense of community between the Black churches here? J:	Yeah, yeah.

	H:	What about the Methodist Church, the White Methodist Church?



	J:	We did Vacation Bible School together last year, but that was one of the outreach ministries that they wanted us to do, to come together with the Methodist Churches here. And they did. And the Methodist Church—this church—had—I didn’t go to Vacation Bible School ‘cause it’s during the day and I was—it was First United Methodist Church and Bethesda Outreach Ministry and Paradise that came together and did a program, a Vacation Bible School program together.

And that was the only—and then anytime we have stuff and most of the time when we have our Charge Conference, we usually have to go down to the Methodist, to the White Methodist church. Yeah, it’s no Black people there. And [inaudible 36:50] they ain’t got no children either probably. [Laughter]

	H:	[Laughter]



	J:	It’s nothing but old people sitting up in there. H:	Okay so, who built this church?

	J:	Mr. Howell, Mr. Banks— H:	And tell their first names.





	J:	Alphonso Howell, he was a carpenter. Wilmer Brown, which is my uncle, and Alvin Banks, and different people from the community, basically. Mostly the men were younger and they were able to do—those are the ones that I can remember. All of them was carpenters so. Most of them worked in the building this church, and the ladies they would sell—I remember they would sell potato pies and peanuts to try and finish building this church, to try and finish building this church.

	H:	Did you have to go to Sunday school?



J:  Yeah, we went to Sunday school. That’s what I’m saying! It was—It was just Sunday school and—it was just everything that we wanted to do on Sunday morning but to come to Sunday school out here. If we didn’t come, Mr. Wells would come pick us up. Mr. Wells would come pick us up, and, you know, we just—it was just interesting back then.

H:   The church mean a lot to you.



	J:	The church mean a lot to us. We were just sitting down thinking and thinking to ourselves and saying what did we do wrong? We did everything we could to say that we paid, you know, we paid our apportionments every year. We paid our insurance. We just paid, you know—even though we didn’t have a lot of money, but we made it possible to make sure we paid all our finances to the conference if there was need, but only time we did not pay. But I don’t understand this guy, the district superintendent; they say he haven’t paid his apportionment in five years. So I don’t know how true that is; I just heard that. That he hadn’t paid—it was Wesley United Methodist Church. But he said that we were self-sustaining;





we didn’t borrow no money from them. We never asked them for money. We never, you know—we paid our own bills! And for the little money that we had, we paid everything that we needed to pay. We didn’t have a lot of money, but we paid what the conference asked us to pay to them, and so we can’t understand why we’re the ones, why they chose Paradise to close because you go out to Nebo, Nebo might have five, ten members, and then they got this White church out here in Providence, between Providence and going toward Providence, and they got about five members. They may have money. I don’t know. But they got five members, I ain’t never heard none of them say about they was gone close down because of membership. So, I really don’t know.

	H:	So do you think that it’s racially motivated them closing the Black churches?



	J:	If I say that, I feel like that’s what it is because I heard understand that they said that this wasn’t gonna be the only church that they close. Most of the churches that they are gone close it ‘cause we Black churches. And reading some articles, you know, doing my research and stuff, they closing a lot of churches, not just Black churches. They closing all of them, and a lot of them got history behind them, but they still closing them. One church, I read, they said they closed it but they gave it back to the church. They gave the building back to the church. You know, they just don’t no longer use the United Methodist Church name. Then one church, they rebuild the church, but they sold the church that they had that had that history, you know. It was in 1822 that they would build and stuff. They just got rid of them because they say anytime the church is getting under ten members—under thirty members—they have to close them, so I don’t know why,





but you know in a community like this, you got thirty churches, and you can’t hardly fill the pews up in the church, so.

	H:	Right, right. So what do you see for the future of Paradise Church?



	J:	You know what, I feel like Paradise would be a good church for outreach ministry. It being the largest church, and our community is starving for Christianity, you know. They’re starving, you know the people—we got a lot of homeless people here in Alachua and that’s why we decided we’d do the soup kitchen. And you’d be just amazed to see that people don’t have food and stuff to eat, you know. And we was, we started serving—they was kind of skeptical about coming, but then as we—they seen that we was outreaching to the community.

Hey you don’t have to pay nothing, just come on and enjoy yourself, then they start coming. And then the next—we missed one month, and that was the day of my mom funeral. And that’s when they decided they was gone close Paradise.

Paradise would be a good outreach ministry just like it housed the Bad Boys and the dance group that they’re trying to organize. They asked us to do all this stuff, you know—going into the community, we did that even before they even told us. We walked the community trying to get people come in. But when they come in, they hear certain things, they just, it’s just not feasible for them to want to stay. I think if we had good leadership in this church, it would be awesome, you know. That’s the only thing I could, you know, feel that it would be, you know.

	H:	The organization the Bad Boys. What’s that organization?



	J:	It’s the low-income families. They started out in somebody house, and then they had got too many and it just amazed me that I came down one day ‘cause I was





usually working. And it just amazed me that those kids don’t have anything to eat, and they looked at this program to come to be a part of this program so they can have a meal. So one guy had to do—one of the kids had to, he had to stay after school. And he came down here and wasn’t no food. And that was the only meal he was going to get that day, so we finally managed to scrape up enough food for him ‘cause anything we leftover they usually give it to them so they can take it home and have food to eat. But it’s just amazed that, you know, people don’t realize that it’s 2016, and people in American are starving, you know. I mean and then most of the kids are without fathers, and they father’s in jail or something like that, but basically—and the police department got involved with them and teaching them ettiquettcy and different things that guys should do, how to go out in the public and hygiene, personal hygiene and they do a lot of things that keep them from getting out in the streets. It’s to save our children, you know, because like I told you, the man said that he been watching the demographics of Alachua and the Whites are getting richer and the Blacks are getting poorer and poorer, you know. We don’t have a lot of housing for young people to go, you know, nothing but the projects over there, and most of the kids that do come through the Bad Boys program, they are from the projects up there, right in Briarwood. And they just started this girls group, this girl dance group, and they were excited about it because we never had that here in Alachua. You know it was always in Gainesville that they had to go out—and you know the sad thing was kids used to could play baseball, basketball for the city, now the prices have got so high they can’t even afford to—





	H:	The recreation.



	J:	The recreation, they can’t even afford the recreation department, do the recreation no more, you know. So.

	H:	And the church coordinates those programs? J:	Coordinates them programs. We house—

	H:	That’s an important part about what the church contributes to the community is through the youth.

	J:	Yeah, it’s through the youth. We trying get the youth—trying to take—bring our youth back, take our youth back. Take them off the street because really there isn’t anything for them to do. They can’t play basketball; they can’t play football no more. Only time they probably could probably if they get a little scholarship every now and again, and the families are actually poor, you know, or most of them is on low-income housing, you know. And we was trying to work something out that we could get [inaudible 46:29] but from what we gathered, our pastor wasn’t in agreement with none of this. She seemed like this was beyond what she wanted to do, you know. And she wanted them to come in there and do this with the kids, but they explained to her that a lot of kids—some of the kids are Jehovah’s Witnesses. They different religions, and they just can’t push one Methodist, Methodism on them when they religion is something else, you know. And she felt like that they shouldn’t—she shouldn’t have to—they should be in her church on Sundays, but, you know, I’m not saying that—this lady is the sweetest lady you ever wanted to see. But like I told you, her ministry is lacking,





whole bunch of—she need to study the word or study something. [Laughter] But, anyway.

	H:	So are there any—is there any last word you have or final word you want to say about the church and what it means to you?

	J:	We need to save our church not just for me, but for the community and for all our outreach ministries that, you know, even now, you know we got so many people wanting to utilize our church, you know, just because it’s in this place, because of where it’s located at. And it’s just part of—and it’s always been a part of us, you know, because we was raised in this community. We were here in this community all our lives, and without this church, it just seem like it’s nothing, you know. This church been here all our lives, and it mean a lot to us to try to save this church not just for us, save it for the community.

	H:	And for the future.



	J:	And for the future, future growth of Alachua. And one thing my mama always used to say pray for the city for Alachua. Just pray for the city of Alachua because you could see that—and it’s so many kids over in that community where I live at none of them have church homes or—it’s just bad—it’s just bad. Some of the kids are getting kicked out of school, nowhere to go, you know, but during the day but resort to selling drugs and doing drugs and stuff. And you close the church down, my God! What else could be next, you know? It’s just open season.

	H:	Okay, well thank you Ms. Gail for speaking with me today. J:	I’m sorry I talk a lot. I talk.

	H:	No, no, no, no. That’s good. The more, we want more.





	J:	[Laughter]



	H:	If you wanna say more, we don’t have to end it! J:	[Laughter]

	H:	But no, thank you so much for coming out today and speaking with us.



J:   Well I hope it will make a difference in our community that y’all did come out, we put a—make a note that we tried to do what we can to save our church, to save Paradise.

H: All right. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Randi Gill-Sadler, June 21, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Holland Hall, June 9, 2017

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019