AAHP 649; Kenney; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 649 Mary Kenney Interviewed by Kristine Berry on April 25, 2019

42 minutes | 24 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Mary Kenney, UF Alumni, discusses her upbringing being adopted at the age of four and how that experience was. Ms. Kenney also talks about her relationship with religion and how it was partially influenced by her parents. She then talks about her involvement with church in Gainesville as well as the worship team. Ms. Kenney delves into her involvement in groups at the University of Florida and her experiences with racial tensions in grade school. Towards the conclusion of the interview, she talks about how her experience at UF impacted her identity.





Keywords: [Gainesville, Florida, Black Community, Family History, University of Florida, SPOHP, University of Florida, Church, Christianity; Racism, Psychology]



AAHP 649

Interviewee: Mary Kenney Interviewer: Kristine Berry Date: April 25, 2019



B:  Hi, this is Kristine Berry with the Samuel Proctor Oral History program from Pugh Hall on April 25th 2019 and I’m speaking with Mary Kenney today.

K:   Hi. [Laughter]



	B:	Thank you Mary for coming in today. K:	Of course!

	B:	Could you please state and spell your name? Completely from birth. K:	Yes.

	B:	Your full name, sorry, kinda awkward to say that.



	K:	Mary Alice Kenney, M-A-R-Y, A-L-I-C-E ,K-E-N-N-E-Y.



	B:	Awesome, and then can you state you age your birthplace and your major.



	K:	Age is twenty-one, birthplace is actually Shands hospital in Gainesville, and my major is psychology with a concentration in behavioral analysis.

	B:	Alright, can you talking a little bit about your childhood? About you family?



	K:	So, I was actually adopted at the age of four. My birth mom had some issues with drugs and alcohol so she could not take care of me. She found out she was pregnant with me when she was actually in prison. So she couldn’t take care of me she asked my now parents to take care of me, and they had me from the time I was a year old and it was a long process of adoption. So after four years they legally adopted me ‘cause my mom waived rights she just couldn’t take care of me. And yeah once I was adopted I think I’ve always known that they’re my parents but I’ve also always known that I was adopted. I had a great childhood, I remember nothing but great things. I was pretty spoiled because I was an only





child so— [Laughter] I had like a lot of animals…tryna think… lot of happy memories. Mainly my childhood was good. I remember a lot of holidays mostly just because that’s what I…think about I don’t think about all times that I…

	B:	Yeah.



	K:	Did random crap when I was little but [Laughter]. Yeah my parents later got divorced when I was in high school so I didn’t ever know about any tension or anything until I was in like middle school. Up until the point in middle school like I would have said that my life was probably pretty picture perfect to everybody. ‘Cause I mean I got good grades in school, I was a good student, I went to a private school up until like fourth grade so I was a pretty little innocent girl. Didn’t know any about the real world until I hit fourth grade. But yeah my childhood was great so…

	B:	Alright, can you talk about you parents? Like what their names were what they do?

	K:	Yeah, so my mom’s Susan Marie, maiden name is Watts, legal name is Kenney obviously now. And she is a paralegal and she works at the state attorney’s office and she’s worked there for X amount of years basically ever since I’ve known her. She’s worked at many different firms like that. My dad his name’s Eugene Clifford Kenney. Very interesting name.

	B:	Love it.



	K:	He did car sales for…like…I think up until…I don’t remember when he retired but since my parents were older when they adopted me, my dad was able to retire.





So he did care sale maybe the first like seven years of my life maybe. Because all I remember is him always being retired so. So that’s what they do.

	B:	And did you parents know your birth mom before?



	K:	Yeah they actually did they were in a bible study with her. So she kind of like…I don’t know I’ve never had anyone say this to me but she kinda was like “You know I’m like having a baby and I need somebody to take care of it” and everyone in the small groups like “Yeah sure” and then when the time like really came like where she really needed someone she specifically asked my parents. So they knew her for like a pretty good bit of time so.

	B:	Okay, so I know you personally so I know that you’re really religious— K:	Mm-hm.

	B:	And you mentioned bible study, so can you talk about like your relationship with religion?—

	K:	Yeah.



	B:	And like your church and stuff.



	K:	So from the time I can remember my adopted parents defiantly, they were Christian so they brought me up Christian. So from the time I was little it was part of my childhood. My mom read me a bible story and like two other stories every night. So I was brought up Christian, and I think as any little kid you still to your parent’s views up until a certain point. But they defiantly had a hand in my connection with religion but as I grew up I also still am connected with Christianity. But, I think religion in itself I’m not a huge fan of just like because I





don’t think that my relationship with god is based on a set rules or anything like that. So I am religious but also at the same time I’m like “Am I though?”

	B:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	K:	I don’t like follow a bunch of rules, I belong to a non-denominational church so it’s very much a relationship rather then like strict religious like guidelines that I have to abide by and I know that’s not every religion but I know a lot of people…like I think I used to feel like “Oh it’s just a set of rules that you have to follow by” as I’ve grown up I’ve found for myself that it’s just a relationship that I have with god so.

	B:	Cool so now that you’re in college do you still participate in the church?



	K:	Yes, I’m very involved in my church[Laughter]. I’m on the worship team, I have a small group and I’m kind of like…I’m not a leader in the small group but I guess you can kinda say my pastors are trying to raise me up as a leader. They invited me to a leadership conference this summer so—

	B:	Oh.



	K:	I think they’re tryna…finalize me as a leader. Yeah so I do that. Wednesday nights is small group Sunday nights or Sunday morning is church and that’s basically it. So it’s still it’s like a two night a week commitment, but I’m very heavily involved in church and I think I’ve been heavily involved personally since like I’d say junior year of high school. Because that was when I wanted to be more involved, ‘cause I’ve always been involved but I think it switched to me personally figuring out what I wanted to mainly when I was in high school.

	B:	Got it. So what church do you belong to here in Gainesville?





	K:	It’s called Venus Springs Church so yeah.



	B:	And then you mentioned worship team and small groups. I’m not really familiar with this can you explain that a little?

	K:	Yeah so, worship team basically that’s a part of our service where there’s a set of people who have musically talents and they can just use them to lead other people in worship which is just singing you know lifting hands to Jesus and everything like that. A lot of times its worship team but my church and I believe that worship is more of a lifestyle—

	B:	Mm-hm.



	K:	Its not just singing but it’s a way that we worship God with music. And so I play piano on that, play guitar on that and I sing. And sometimes I lead, yeah. [Laughter]

	B:	Oh my god.



	K:	So yeah, I just got involved with that really in summer. And they’ve been leading me like helping me figure out how to lead in that just like recently in fall so. I’ve kinda always lead worship, at my old church I did too, but I kinda took a step back ‘cause I was like “Am I still ready for this”[Laughter] so it’s a big responsibility because it’s not about you.

	B:	Mm-hm.



	K:	It’s about you being a leader and leading other people so. In small group is just, it’s kinda similar to what people say bible study is but we discuss the bible so instead of it being like we’re trying study like you study in the library. We just discuss a passage of scripture and we kind of apply it to our lives and there’s





time for discussion but also questions if anyone has any questions you’re always welcome to ask any questions. No one has the perfect answer but you answer as best as you can. And then we typically…so we have discussion and then we pray afterwards and that’s like you can pray by yourself or you can ask for prayer. And that’s just essentially a time where people are getting with god themselves and if they need help they can do it by themselves or they can just have somebody else pray over them and then we just eat after which is my favorite part so… [Laughter] But, yeah.

	B:	Okay you also mentioned holidays earlier— K:	Mm-hm.

	B:	Like how they’re important family tradition wise— K:	Yeah.

	B:	Can you talk a little bit, like what family traditions you have? K:	Yeah, so Christmas is my favorite holiday [Laughter]

	B:	Me too.



	K:	Mainly I think because like I said I was spoiled. I got a lot of gifts when I was little.



I know that’s not the main part of Christmas but still I was so excited for Christmas. I love all the lights and putting up the tree and everything. So when I was little the like main thing this holidays, the tradition, was like for Christmas we have the tree up like the day after Thanksgiving. Like day after we have it up it’s up great. But we also were a super decorative house so as soon as, I think like even before the first day of fall[Laughter] we had fall decorations, we had Christmas decorations we had Easter decorations, spring decorations, like





summer decorations literally everything. So I mean as I got older, ‘cause I used to love to help with that, it like stopped ‘cause I was like “this is a lot of work we have a lot of decorations” So that’s one that kinda fell out but we always try to put the tree up the day after thanksgiving. And because my family is kinda small our gatherings weren’t like “Oh I have a thousand people coming to my house” it was always me and my parents so we’ve never had super strict traditions when my parents were together it was always us but when my parents got divorced and stuff it was me and my mom and then one year we went to my mom’s like coworkers house. And because like this year my mom like kinda wanted to included my dad back in into our lives a little bit just so he wouldn’t be alone we had thanksgiving and Christmas with him again, so it kinda changes every year but the tradition of putting up the tree stays.

	B:	Awe.



	K:	That’s my favorite tradition so.



	B:	That’s so cute. Do you have like foods that you guys specifically eat like for holidays? Like—

	K:	Yes.



	B:	Your favorite foods for like Thanksgiving or Christmas or something?



	K:		Yeah, staple is cranberry sauce, like my moms not bring cranberry sauce its over like she knows I’ll get mad at her. That’s my favorite we always have stuffing always we changed it up one year for thanksgiving I think we had pork chops or something. [Laughter] But typically we have like turkey, stuffing, cranberry sauce. Sometimes my mom will like, I think like very year my mom tries to change like a





certain dish especially because when I was little I didn’t like green beans. [Laughter] I still don’t like green beans.

	B:	No way.



	K:	That’s a story, a girl in my class told me they look like poop and I was just like ‘over— , “Nope, I’m never eating those things again.” So.

	B:	Wow.



	K:	Yeah, so I was traumatized as a child with the green beans. So yeah, stuffing’s a staple I think. Christmas is the same, just like cranberry sauce. If we don’t have cranberry sauce it’s not a holiday for me, and my mom knows that.

	B:	Okay, also you mentioned music. I know music’s really important to you. K:	Yes.

	B:	So that leads to my next question. Which is like, what extracurriculars and organizations are you involved in on campus?

	K:	Well I have been involved in an a capella group since I was a freshman I took a little break last year but I’m coming back which I am super excited for. I’ve always been musically inclined like my dad tells people stories that ever since I was little and he was holding me that he knew I was gonna sing and I was obviously a baby and I couldn’t speak so I think that’s kinda funny. I have a picture of myself singing at my church when I was like four and I’ve been sing all my life. Like I don’t know, I tell people all the time, I don’t know if I got nodes or something and couldn’t sing for the rest of my life I think I would be depressed. So music’s always been a huge part of my life. Sadoctives the a capella group that I’ve been involved in for…technically four years but also technically three because I





took a break. But has been like a huge joy to my life, I love being with a group of people that love music but also love each other. Its like sorority like sisterhood but better for me because its revolved around music and I just think music connects people and unites them and I am just a sucker for harmonies and how they sound how they feel. Just makes you feel really really good and really happy so that’s been a huge blessing in my life but yeah I’ve grown up with music—[ Laughter] literally since I was a baby so…

	B:	Okay so you mentioned a break. Why did you take a break? K:	So I took—

	B:	If you don’t mind me asking.



	K:	Oh no I don’t mind. I took a break from acapella at the end of my sophomore year, I’m reaching the end of my junior year now, so I took a year off and I felt like because I started college in acapella it was like I’m this 18 year old I’m so excited for life everything. At that time in my life I wasn’t like as strong in my faith, it didn’t clash but at the same time I had trouble figuring out my priorities that got kinda worse I guess as it progressed when I found that I really wanted to be at the church that I’m at now Vita because we have extracurricular and Sadoctives have gigs and I have small group on Wednesday nights which would not be good for my schedule and I would just like find myself in a predicament like I wanna go to small group but like I have to do this gig. And In my mind I couldn’t separate the two that like it’s okay for me for me to have separate priorities but I have to make time for both of them.

	B:	Yeah.





	K:	And there was a lot of stress in the group at the time when I was a sophomore there was a lot of, I mean we’re an all-girl group, so being with girls isn’t always fun[Laughter] there was a lot of drama there was a lot of unnecessary like gossip and that it just doesn’t cultivate a good community and I was on the e-board which is just our little council within Sadoctives. So there was a lot of things pilling up that made me eventually grow to dislike the group but not dislike music it was more like the group.

	B:	Yeah.



	K:	So I close to leave ‘cause I wasn’t really happy anymore and I feel like it was the best decision for me and my faith as well. But at the same time super happy to come back because it’s something that I love and I cherish music and I cherish being in a group of people that love to unite and connect with each other in that way. And, tear, it’s my last year [Berry and Kenney laugh] so I have to do it one last time.

	B:	Yeah, so what made you decide to come back? Because it’s your last year or?



	K:	I think ‘cause I realized that I can decide for myself and I am very heavily influenced by other people and I’m trying to grow out that. [Laughter] But I think that I put other people’s expectations on top of myself and I was like thinking in spring a lot “oh I really miss it, I really wanna go back” and then I kinda would dismiss those thoughts and be like “oh that’s not right.” And then I would think “Why is that not right. Do I think that’s not right or do I think that somebody else doesn’t think that’s not right” And it was more thinking other people would judge me for it and I just don’t want to be that way. So, and I think it’s something that





brings me joy and I have love for literally in the group. And I was telling my mom earlier today “They’re people I think I’m going to be friends with for the rest of my life” and I wanna continue trying to cultivate those friendships with new girls and still finding my passion through music. Not just within church because its important within church but I also feel I need an outlet was well. So yeah.

	B:	Alright, and your major. Can you remind me what it is?



	K:	Psychology with a concentration in behavioral analysis but that’s pretty new. B:	So what inspired you to like go into that?

	K:	I was really interested in psychology as a high school senior. B:	Mm-hm.

	K:	Senior or Junior, I took a Psych class and I absolutely loved it. It was a accelerated ace course so we had to take a…ace exam which is like a Cambridge exam kinda similar to IB and stuff like that, at the end of the year. Those things are like huge because you work all year to make sure you pass the test and like my Psych teacher was so proud of me I passed the test with like flying colors and that’s the only subject I was so interested in and wanted to know more about.

	B:	Mm-hm.



	K:	And I thought about majoring in that in college but at first I was like listening to my mom “Oh you should do pharmacy” and I was like realizing that I didn’t wanna do that. [Laughter] I was just bopping around my freshman year dong whatever I wanted to do and I took a psych class and I was like “Nope I want this to be my major.” So, I just…I love talking about behavior and the social impacts





of it and also like mental health as well. And that kind of comes into play as well especially ‘cause my minor is in sociology and I was able to take a sociology and mental health class and I loved that class I think that’s something I’m passionate about because I don’t think people talk about it enough and I don’t think people like understand how serious mental health is and that also something I want to be able to bring into my degree so I’m super happy that I was able to minor in sociology ‘cause I think sociology and psychology complement each other really well.

	B:	Yeah, so do you wanna become a psychologist in the future? What do you plan on doing with your degree?

	K:	So [Berry and Kenney laugh] not a psychologist because—sophomore year was a tough year for a lot of reasons. I tried to be pre-med psychology and I nearly died so I am not like tryna be a psychologist just I don’t think that—I have the ability just not the drive to wanna go that far. I’m more interested in like children and just more of the social aspect now so I’m leaning towards social work right now. And my behavioral analysis concentrations is just ‘cause I took a behavior analysis class and I love it. And it think that its been a struggle this semester to figure out like what exactly I want to do because I wanna work with kids I wanna advocate for them at the same time I want people to understand that there’s certain techniques like behavioral analysis that are super important but not like broadcasted enough because like everybody I’ve talked to doesn’t know anything about behavioral analysis I didn’t even know it was a thing. So I don’t necessarily want to go straight into that just because I’m unsure of how stable it is but I also





thing is compliments social work really well and I have an aunt that is in the social work area and she’s given me so much information about social workers and how much they are able to…do for children especially ‘cause she knows that I love kids.

	B:	Mm-hm.



	K:		I also know that social workers can help with adoptions and stuff like that and that’s so close to my heart because I was adopted and I know how scary it can be to have like three years of not knowing if you’re going to get a child is really scary—

	B:	Oh, yeah.



	K:	My mom opened up about that and that’s terrifying. My doctor found out I was adopted and he asked me ‘cause he adopted a child so that’s something that I’m super passionate about and I think that if I ever wanted to pursue that like specifically social work would give me a good area to do that so, I’m thinking more towards social work and using my psychology and sociology to add to that.

	B:	That’s awesome, so now were gonna go more into the racial aspect of it. So what do you identify yourself as in terms of ethnicity or race?

	K:	So I identify myself as mixed because my birth mom was actually Caucasian, we’re unsure of what my birth father was because she thought he was Hispanic and she tested a few guys and it wasn’t him so I literally have no idea what he was but clearly he had to be some darker skinned race because I’m a mixed color.[Laughter] I’m very brown so I’m not White at all.[Kenney laughs] Not sure but a lot of people who have talked to me have thought I was Hispanic but I can’t





speak Spanish at all, that’s also ‘cause I don’t really know it very well[Laughter]so I don’t know but I identify as mixed.

	B:		Okay, so thinking of that did that affect you at any time growing up like as a child? Either in terms of race or ethnicity in like school or your personal life?

	K:	Oh yeah for sure, I remember a specific time in second grade when I was playing on the playground and this kid said he didn’t wanna play with me ‘cause I was…Black? I think? And I don’t think I understood what that meant, because I remember feeling like “That’s not really nice.” But I don’t think I cried about it and I told my teacher and she freaked out like she was like “that was so awful” also like this was when I was in a private school [Laughter] so they were like that is not something that like people in a private school would say to another kid. And that was the only time I ever got sent to the principal’s office because someone else said that to me. So it’s definitely come up in my life a lot and I also think that because I don’t know essentially like what I am completely, it also leaves a lot of room for people to speculate. Actually two months ago a guy approached me in the library and was tryna hit on me but was like talking about my race and he was like “Yeah I think you’re Dominican” and I was kinda just like ‘Yeah I don’t really know” like and I’m comfortable with not knowing right now but I’m getting to the point in my life where I do want to know. More so like I don’t really wanna know who my birth dad is but I wanna know what my ethnicity is, what my race is where I came from ‘cause I’m curious not ‘cause other people are curious but people have definitely speculated a lot and I just try not to let it bother me because I think some people are uncomfortable with mystery sometimes and I’m





just like “This is me, I don’t really care right now.” But I’m gonna care when I have kids ‘cause I’m gonna wanna tell them what they are ‘cause I think that’s so cool so.

	B:	Awesome, was that the first time you noticed your skin tone or race? That aspect of it, was when that kid said that to you?

	K:		I would say yes because I like…I really think that I didn’t know that I was brown for a long time my parents are both White so. And I had all White Barbie dolls and it was just what I wanted [Laughter] I wanted the White Barbie dolls I mean it makes sense my parents are White.

	B:	Yeah.



	K:	But I don’t think that they realized, it didn’t negatively affect me, but I don’t think I realized until like. “Oh I’m a different skin color than other people” that might like…make some people feel a certain way I guess. I just remembers an instance where I was friends with someone in middle school and she told me that I couldn’t go over to her dad’s house because he didn’t like Black people and my mom was really mad. And I have just been so unfazed by these things and I’m surprised because it’s not kind to say those kind of things or feel that way but I’m just very just like not a confrontational person so I’m just like “I mean, Okay. I don’t wanna be friends with you if you don’t wanna be friends with me just ‘cause of the color of my skin.” So, it’s been a conversation that comes up a lot. I’ve had people say that like I have a type of friend and that all my friends are White but like, I have so many different colors of friends like I don’t even think of race as something that determining. It’s not a determining factor in friendships or





anything like that. So it’s not something that bothers me but it bothers me that it bothers other people who I’m friends with or the color of my skin how it affects me or me not knowing what I am. It seems to bother other people more than it bothers me so. I’m not really sure why that is but I just try not to let it faze me so.

	B:	You mentioned elementary school, did that increase more when you got to high school or to college? Or did it less than? Did you notice a difference at all?

	K:	I think it was more prevalent in middle school. I think that was the first time I felt like racism, was like having a girl tell me that I couldn’t go over to her dads house because he doesn’t like Black people. It was really hurtful because she was a close friend of mine, I know, its I don’t get it I don’t try to get it. [Berry and Kenney laugh] But I don’t think I’ve every really felt—oh actually that’s a lie. Someone told me, that is also a minority, when I was applying to UF I was super nervous that I wasn’t gonna get in. And he said “oh you’re a minority you’ll get in.” And I was just like…that really hurt my feeling because I tried so hard in school and I really wanted to go to UF because I thought it was the best like choice for me.

And just the fact that someone was like “Oh you’re gonna get in because your disadvantaged because of the color of your skin.” And that like…that hurt my feelings and that’s something like the fact that…someone said something to me when I was like in the second grade and then middle school, and high school those things stick out to me because like it hit a nerve. And I think…I’m such a happy person I was such a happy child that those things… it didn’t negatively affect me but it did make this think like “Oh this worlds not really…fun all the time.” So. [Laughter]





	B:	You mentioned like, the minority that a lot of students use when they apply for colleges.

	K:	Mm-hm.



	B:	And that’s interesting because UF doesn’t actually use affirmative action so like can you tell me a little bit about you opinion on that? Do you think it did affect your acceptance? Obviously—

	K:	I don’t think it did. I was super involved in high school. I mean like I wrote a really emotional piece for my essay because in high school my mom was diagnosed with lung cancer. She was diagnosed when I was a sophomore in high school so that like…I didn’t like ruin my life or anything but it definitely…took a lot of strength to get through the rest of high school because it was like “Is my mom not gonna be here” and luckily she is but it was very scary for me so I kind of…dedicated my essay to her, and I forget what I essay question was. [Berry and Kenney laugh] It was a very emotional piece and I think that was just a part of my resume where I was able to show like my heart and my personality but I don’t even think I mentioned my race in my paper.[Laughter] Like I said I was adopted and stuff like that and my mom had lung cancer. But I mean I had a 4.2 in high school I had really good grades I think I got one C in high school I was super involved [Laughter] I can’t say that for college. Cs get degrees. But I was super involved in music. I was in dance I was in chorus, I was in Jazz band. And I was super involved in church, so I was super involved. And I think that I was a well-rounded person and I think that they could have been like “Oh I don’t know





what color she is.” And I don’t think that affected my acceptance or not. I didn’t play the minority card at all[Laughter] other people tried it for me and I was—

	B:	Don’t want to.



	K:	I don’t want to I don’t think that colleges should do that and I definitely didn’t think that UF did at all so yeah.

	B:	Now that we’re going into UF now on—



	K	Mm-hm.



	B:	More recent times. Have you ever faced any discrimination because of your multi-race or ethnicity here at UF?

	K:	I don’t think like discrimination I haven’t ever felt that I people are super friendly here. More friendly than in Ocala that’s for sure, that’s where I’m from. But I’ve never felt discriminated against, there was that Richard Spencer thing that really was unsettling and that was my sophomore year and I didn’t got to a gig with Sadoctives because my mom was scared that something would happen to me. So that was the one time it was kind of crippling to feel like “Oh this is kind of scary.” But I didn’t feel discriminated against I was just like cautioning myself, but none’s every made me feel like bad for who I am racially or individually. But I know It happens and I think I do a really good job at steering myself away from it, but yeah I’ve never felt discriminated here at all I think people are super friendly here for the most part.

	B:	Awesome, in what ways had your experience at UF impacted based on your identity or how you identify to others?





	K:	I think that UF does a good job at just kind of letting people do their own thing and really highlighting individuality. There a lot of things going on here everyday and people do their own things like…sleep on benches if they need to. [Laughter] I think that’s so funny, but I just think being yourself is then super highlighted just by things that I’ve seen and making a difference is also something I’ve seen in like having certain friends that are really involved in seeing that and seeing them praise for that and praise by the university is nice. So I think UF has allowed me to find who I am and not be ashamed of it. Whether its regards to my race or just like my religion or anything like because I’m able not to have conversations with people which would normally seem confrontational maybe if we disagree but I’ve been able to have those conversations and not feel uncomfortable that I’m gonna offend anybody. So yeah.

	B:	Awesome do you feel like its affect maybe your like outside of UF campus like in Gainesville itself?

	K:	Probably I don’t think people are very nice [Laughter] outside of UF campus. Like I said I don’t like remember, ‘cause I would remember if there was a specific time I felt discriminated against. But, I mean cat calling is always a thing, that sucks, but I just don’t care about that. Yeah I think UF is just pretty good about having the image of being yourself and doing what’s best for you.

	B:	Mm-hm.



K:  I wouldn’t say that the rest of Gainesville is like that. It just seems like it’s in direct contrast. You like step away from UF and its like…huh. [Laughter] ‘Cause there’s a lot of things that go on here that people are tryna make like change and I think





that’s great because you should learn about that when you’re you know…developing as an adult.

	B:	Yeah.



	K:	But I think that there could be— I can’t speak. There can be more to be done outside of the UF campus. And I think that UF has a huge platform to be able to do that but at the same time like I know they can only do so much so. This world just needs a lot of help. [Laughter]

	B:	Okay last question, as a student here do you feel that the student/professor population reflects the students here on campus?

	K:	Hmm…



	B:	Kind of thinking like do you see yourself in your professors is it like a reflected image?

	K:	Yeah.



	B:	Or do you see students like you on campus often?



	K:	I would say that probably no. I am trying to think of all of the professors that I’ve had and they’ve been of like differing racial identity and stuff like that but they haven’t been like—I think that diversity can always be better and I hope to see it be better I know that’s come up in conversation with like friends a lot. Like lately they’re like “There not a lot of diversity here” and I think there is its just you focus on so much of like the one race that’s just like stands out the most and you’re like “Well where are these, where are these.” And I just think that because were like a melting pot of all these different races that there’s still a lot to be done and a of…gaps to be, you know, filled in and everything. I think that UF can be better





but also there needs to be more opportunity for that—I wouldn’t say that for like professors specifically I see other professors like me but I’ve been able to be friends with so many students who have the same story or have a similar stories to me. So student wise I think yes professor wise I maybe no. I’m not really sure why that is, yeah so.

	B:	Awesome, do you have any closing remarks you would like to add to this? K:	Thanks for letting me do it[Berry and Kenney laugh] it’s super fun.

	B:	Thank you Mary! Other than that I think we’re good. K:	Awesome.

	B:	Okay so we’re back with Mary Kenney she just wants to add a couple more things to the interview so I’m gonna ask one question. Do you associate with any certain racial or ethnicity group on here on campus?

	K:	I don’t. Just because I think of my upbringing since I was adopted and like both of my parents are White. I think…I don’t know[Laughter]I don’t know how it came about in my childhood but I just don’t think that my parent never made it very apparent like “Oh your race is so important” which it is in some aspects it just doesn’t define me so I’ve never felt like the need to…I think identify with a group. I think in some aspects I feel a little uncomfortable to, because like in the past I’ve had people say “Oh you’re like the Whitest Black girl I’ve ever met” and so I don’t wanna be like everybody else I wanna like be myself and still like fit in I guess. So, that’s like deterred me from being in a specific group on campus but no one has ever said that to me here it’s just how I’ve been raised so.





	B:	Yeah. So you mentioned like feeling uncomfortable about like…not fitting into those specific groups. So what do you think they can do to change that?

	K:	I think that realizing that…just because you’re a specific race doesn’t mean you’re going to behave a certain way.

	B:	Mm-hm.



	K:	I know like—I forget the quote from Michelle Obama[Laughter] but, love her bow down to her love her, she said something about like the way you’re raised has nothing to do to with race. It’s just that if you’re raised the “right way” [Berry and Kenney laugh], air quotes. If you’re raised like a respectable and just showing manners you’re gonna speak eloquently. And I’m sure that’s how people view me like they say “Oh she talks like a White girl” because I don’t have a certain like I guess slang to my talk I guess. So I think that being open to the fact that just because you’re a certain race doesn’t mean you’re going to check all the boxes of how you’re going to act and I think that’s how you widen the acceptance between races because like we’re all the same. We may talking differently and have different accents but we’re all the same people we just have different skin colors. And I think instead of just trying to like band together in little like racial groups we should be focused on banding together as a united front between all races.

	B:	Okay, and then you mentioned outside of the recording actually earlier about dating culture.

	K:	Yeah.





	B:	At like UF and maybe in Ocala as well. But how do you think race has affected the dating culture for you? Or that you’ve noticed with other students on campus too?

	K:	I think dating is a weird thing for me. [Laughter] I haven’t really like dated dated so…but I have had people in my like, especially in middle school, like tell me like “Oh you’re never gonna get a boyfriend” that’s hurt my feelings. That wasn’t tied to race but like it was a Black guy saying that to me so I remember it. But also had someone tell me like “Oh sorry but, White guys won’t like you.” And I was very confused ‘cause they’re like “I mean like you don’t really see White guys ending up with mixed girls” and I just didn’t think that was right at all. Because like I don’t think anything should be based solely on the color of your skin. So it’s never held me back but it definitely doesn’t make me feel good that I’ve had people speak that over me. Dating culture here I would say…I’ve had people in my life try to set me up with specifically guys of my same race or just like African- American boys. Just solely always it’s never like “Oh you should be with whoever you want.” Like “Oh I know this guy and you should date him” and it’s kinda like why and it’s implied that like “Oh ‘cause you guys are like the same” [Laughter] but just because we are the same color skin does not mean that we might be compatible. So, and I mean like I typically am more attracted to Black guys but that doesn’t mean I wouldn’t be attracted to a White guy. I mean Zac Efron is beautiful. [Laughter] and also Michael Jordan, Michael B. Jordan, is beautiful so. Two different people, so yeah I feel like people put that…expectation on me that I’m just gonna end up with a Black guy and I’m like “I don’t really know” like I





don’t really care as long as they, you know, fit my idea of a good guy. So I think that it’s projected on me more than me projecting it on like anybody else so.

	B:	Got it, I that’s it this time. K:	Yeah, Yeah.

	B:	Unless you wanna add anything else to the interview that you would like to talk about.

	K:	Um...



	B:	That we haven’t covered maybe.



	K:	Let me think really fast ‘cause I know I was getting excited. [Laughter] I think that’s it.

	B:	Alight, thank you Mary. K:	You’re welcome.

[End of Interview]



Transcribed by:

Kasamba Kokayi

August, 1, 2019

Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

December 8, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

January 12, 2021