AAHP 707; Griffin; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 707 Ronnie Griffin 8-4-2019

Interviewed by Liana Zafran, Marissa Volk, and Aishwarya Kunta on August 8, 2019

24 minutes | 12 pages



Abstract: In this interview, students with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program sit down with Black Vietnam veteran Ronnie Griffin at the VFW in Monticello, Florida to document his life story. Griffin was born and educated in Greenville, Alabama, before he began junior college in Florida. Once in Florida, he was drafted for service in Vietnam in 1968. He spent nearly a year in Vietnam before leaving active combat for Fort Hood, Texas. He worked his way up the ranks, retiring from the military after twenty-one years as a Chief Warrant Officer. Griffin credits his time in Vietnam as his most horrific experience in the military, explaining that his deployment coincided with the North Vietnamese Tethered Fence offensive, a north-to-south campaign to push all occupied forces out of Vietnam in an effort to end the war. Griffin explains that his work in ammunition depots made the NVA offensive of particular concern to him, as a primary objective of the campaign was to destroy American ammunition supplies and fuel. He reflects on the long-term effects of exposure to high levels of stress, noting that many of his comrades struggled with substance abuse and post-traumatic stress disorder upon their return. Griffin credits the support of his faith and family for helping him through the transition from active-duty combat, noting that he suffered from severe nightmares at times. Griffin’s legacy of military service lives on in his two sons, one of which has earned the rank of Lieutenant Colonel.





Keywords: [Monticello, Florida, Black community, veteran, Vietnam War, VFW, PTSD, military, draft]



AAHP 707

Interviewee: Ronnie Griffin

Interviewer: Liana Zafran, Marissa Volk, Aishwarya Kunta Date: August 4, 2019



	Z:	Hi so my name is Liana Zafran and I’m here with- K:	Aishwarya Kunta

	V:	Marissa Volk



	Z:	With the Samuel Procter Oral History Program and today is— K:	August 4th 2019.

	Z:	Yeah and we’re interviewing— G:	Ronnie Griffin/

	Z:	At—



	K:	Monticello.



	G:	Monticello, Florida/



	Z:	Awesome. So if you could just tell us a little about when and where you were born?

	G:	I was born in Greenville, Alabama and I went to high school there and from there I started Junior College and then we moved to Florida and here. Then I was drafted in the military, I was drafted in the military in 1968 and went to basic training, AIT, which is advanced training and from there I was in Vietnam for eleven months and twenty-nine days and when I came out of Vietnam they sent me to Fort Hood, Texas and that was time that I had done a couple years it was time for me to get out so I elected to stay in. So I changed my MOS which is military occupation and I stayed there for twenty-one years and retired out of the military as a Chief Warrant Officer.

	Z:	So what brought you to want to join the military? What was that like?





	G:	Well I actually didn’t join the military, I was drafted. Back in those days they had what they call a draft, you didn’t have a choice. The city and the state government they select people to go in. So I was drafted in the military when I first went in then I made a choice afterwards to stay in. So that is what happened, no I didn’t choose to go in they chose me.

	Z:	What led you to stay in the military?



	G:	Well after coming from Vietnam, they sent me to Fort Hood, Texas and I went into a different field of work and I liked what I was doing so I decided to stay in. So I did ten years as an enlisted person and I decided to change and go into the officer field and I did another almost eleven years as a warrant officer.

	Z:	What was it like being out in the field and then transitioning to an office position, could you talk about that?

	G:	Well I guess the most horrific experience we had was in Vietnam because there was a war going on. I was in Vietnam during a time where they called it tethered fence. I don’t know if any of you guys have heard of that but that was the war was coming basically to an end and they were sending all their military people from North Vietnam coming down and had what they called a tethered fence.

That’s where they just crawling and trying to push all the occupant forces out of Vietnam. So we fought during the tethered fence and I’ve seen a lot of people lose their life there. A lot of the enemies as well because I was in the—we supplied depo ammunition and one thing about being there, it was two couple things that the Vietnamese did want to get rid of. There was ammunition because they are used to fire them. Also fuel and stuff so you can move around. So I was





in what you call a, “hot spot” the whole time I was there and we got hit basically just about every night trying to blow us up, trying to blow up the ammunitions and keep us from sending out to the troops to fire back at them. So I did eleven months and twenty-nine days there and that was in a place called Qui Nhon, Phu Tai Valley. [inaudible at 04:13] Valley where we had different locations. Where we had ammunitions staged out there to supply to the front line infantry men., But we had so many infantry guys arrive just to help us protect the ammo so we was all going to battle just about every day we was there.

Z:  Can you tell us a little bit about the relationships that you made in Vietnam like how your friendships in Vietnam differed from the friendships you made later in your military career?

	G:	Well the friendship with the troops and things that I served with, we were the close knit family because you had to rely on each other you know you wasn’t out there by yourself. It was always a team effort to try to survive because we had people that was trying to come in, infiltrate our site to destroy and that was an ongoing process to so you know we never traveled by ourselves basically. When you went, you went with a couple people because you want to protect the other soldiers. Throughout that I developed some lifelong friendships, some people that I met there and a couple of them have passed away since that time but one is still here. We’re still communication you know occasionally we communicate, it’s not an everyday thing where we communicate. So you develop a friendship, a lifelong friendship with the soldiers that you served with and I served with basically the U.S. Military but we had some Chinese people there as supply





people and we had some people out of Korea, Korea people and Chinese people serving alongside us. So you know I’ve lost friendship with them but when we was there we was all just like one. We had to rely on each other to survive there.

	Z:	And did you have family back in the states? Like did you have a wife and children back in those days when you were in Vietnam?

	G:	Yeah at that time I basically had just got married before I was drafted in so I left my wife and kid back here, during the time I was there and that was a year over there and when I came back after the year I went to Fort Hood, Texas and then they joined me later on out there so my children. I guess we were married about fifteen, sixteen years and I don’t know something happened and we divorced but I later married again and out of that union we have to children. The first one we had three, the second one I have two.

	Z:	And then do any of your family members like your siblings or your kids have they gone on to carry on the military legacy?

G:  Yes, I have two sons, one was in the military and I have a son now is a Colonel, Lieutenant Colonel that’s in the military as we speak. He’s in Kansas. Stationed in Kansas so you know the tradition continue to go on and on.

Z:  And were they inspired by you? Did they cite you as like a big inspiration going into—

	G:	I would like to think so but you know everybody has their own mind, their own frame of mind of doing things. I would like to think that—cause we—you know they follow me mostly and I would like to think that that’s the reason they decided to go in but one of my sons he decided to get out and the other one, he stayed in





just like I did so he’s making a career out of it. He’s been there for twenty years now and he’s getting ready to get out as soon as he can a release date to get out.

	Z:	When you were in Vietnam, you mentioned some Chinese people and Korean people.

	G:	Yeah.



	Z:	How was that like to be working alongside people from a different culture?



	G:	Well it was working relationship because they were just like we are, they were trying to defend the area they was in and they were also trying to maintain their line. So when they first came in it was a language barrier and you know but we quickly got over that. We knew how to—it was a buddy buddy system for most of them. Now the Chinese people they did more of what they call the convoy type thing, they moved stuff from one place to another so we didn’t have as much contact or interaction with them that we did with our South Korea counterpart and of course we have had soldiers stationed in South Korea since the Korean War so most them basically speak English or broken English whereas a lot of us couldn’t speak Korean. But since they had that so it was easier to communicate with those guys. That was basically it.

	Z:	You talked about a language barrier but then that changed, how did you end up communicating with them?

	G:	It was a language barrier if you want to just have a general conversation but as far as the work type thing, we all basically knew what we had to do and we all know when it comes time to when we get hit, the Vietnamese was coming in





trying to penetrate our site at all time so you know it wasn’t a problem with that type of communication. It was just maybe a social type of communication where you maybe want to sit down and have a general conversation but we’d sit and maybe have a beer or two to drink you know there was limit to what you could talk about because of the language barrier. But we met some good people there, good friends.

	Z:	Do you have a memory of anyone in particular?



	G:	I had a friend of mine, his name was Lee. Lee Phon something like that but anyway yeah I met him there and he told me about where he lived you know we got to basically talking about families and back home and where he lived in Korea and I later on had the chance to go to Korea so I went to where he was living at but I didn’t see him. I was stationed in Korea for a year and then I went back twice since that time but being in the military so I was able to basically one the south—we only got American troops on the south side of Korea. So I was able to go over there and see where he was talking about because he was talking about his country and I was talking about my country and just to share those type of experiences when we could and I was proud to go over there and see just what he was talking about. Beautiful country I don’t know if any of you have been there but it’s a beautiful country.

	Z:	How was the transition coming back from Vietnam and transitioning back to being in the U.S.?

	G:	Back at that time the transition was rough on just about all of the military guys that was coming up you know in a place where you’re under stress of a situation





at all times because you don’t know so a lot of the times you’re not sleeping well. Sometimes you’re not eating well and a lot of times you scared as hell because you don’t know what happen you know especially when they start blowing you know we would get hit , primarily just about every night would try to come in and we’d catch them or they’d get in and blow up some of the ammunition [inaudible at 12:05] So you were always alert because you don’t know when somebody gone hit or you could be in the way of the fragments as that’s happening or somebody gone shoot at you. It was a tense moment all the time but when we came back a lot of military guys when they was there, because it was such a stressful situation they relied on something, some kind of vice to help them get through that. Some of them did a lot of drinking. Some of them did smoking primarily like marijuana, that was there and it was flowing just like anything else. A lot of them smoked a lot and drank a lot. So when you come out of that, out of a situation like that and you come back to the United States you try to wind down from that so a lot of guys was suffering from what they call PTSD, I’m sure you all heard of PTSD. You know you couldn’t sleep well and a lot of them lost family because the family didn’t understand when they got back you know. Or even my wife, my wife didn’t understand cause a lot of the times I had nightmares of things happening especially if you trying to rest or something any kind of noise or loud bang or something will set you off so it was a stressful time and it was stressful time when you got back here. So a lot of the guys that were coming back, some of them went bad, some of them continued to smoke or drink and when I went off Texas we had a lot of trainees that they were sending back into





Texas so it was a rough time for those guys and a lot of them, they put them out of the military. I hope they got help. Some of them went to jail because they couldn’t take back a situation when they was coming back in here. But I was fortunate that that didn’t happen to me you know early on when I got there I tried to find a situation where I could be able to manage my sanity because it was tough at the time you know when you’re twenty-one, twenty-two years old, straight drafted. You go straight to basic training they call it. Straight to advanced training and straight from there right into Vietnam and right into a situation where people are shooting at you or you shooting at them. We were in this situation at one time where the higher echelon decided not to let us fire back when we get fire upon and we had to get permission to fire before you could even fire and that was a tough thing because you see someone coming in but you couldn’t fire at him, you couldn’t shoot at him because you had to get permission from someone sitting back someplace so you can do that so it was tough on a lot of the guys that was there and we lost some guys because of that.

	Z:	And when you came back what kind of support system do you think that you had here that other veterans did not have from that war that helped you get back on your feet?

	G:	For me the support system I had back was my family and my religious belief, my church and things like that. That was mainly my support system at that time in [19]69 in [19]70 which was back then, the military didn’t really have a lot of support systems for the guys like we do— you know things have changed you know everything changes as time progresses but in those days we didn’t have a





lot of support from the military which they needed, they needed mentally. Mental type support and physical. We had a lot of guys that didn’t necessarily get wounded by a bullet or something but they was in a situation where it was constant spraying the foliage what you call agent orange all around of us and a lot of guys, even I did, suffered from the symptoms. Even now that some of the symptoms they have and they have attributed from breathing you know living in that area, breathing that type of stuff. It’s all around you, it’s on your clothing, it’s on you and you gone have this— back then the hygiene wasn’t like it should be because you don’t have the opportunity to wind down and do a lot of hygiene you maybe changed clothes every three or four days not like here you might take a bath every day we didn’t have that type of thing there. Even going to the restroom facility we had to make our own restroom facilities so all that type of stuff because you in the war zone. So a lot of guys was, as a result of that, now they’re suffering from PTSD and agent orange and high blood pressure and diabetes and all these things now they contributed to being there because of the pesticide and all that stuff that you— and the reason that they were using a lot of pesticide because we fighting it’s just like being in the jungle and it’s so heavy with foliage they come in a spray that area. And try to clear it out so that we could see people coming in or see people going out, whatever the case might be. So you had to try to make a clearing so you could be able to see because the jungle was so thick that you couldn’t hardly see and they can easily come in. So that’s why they always sprayed around us and they coming in— back then you didn’t think anything of it because when they come they come with an aircraft just





spraying that stuff all over everything, just like rain. You didn’t think it was affecting you but later on we find out, all of us come to find out that it’s affecting you’re health as you get older like I am now you know.

	Z:	What were the sleeping conditions like?



	G:	Where I was, the sleeping condition wasn’t bad. We did have a bunkhouse back not where we was actually working on the daily basis. When we would go back in the afternoon and we had shifts that were twenty-four hour day because you never off so you had to give everybody a break to be able to sleep and eat and kind of replenish their bodies and everything else. So we did have a place that we could go back to relax and sit and eat and things like that and then from that point on you back you know three or four hours and you were right back in down where the ammunition and all that stuff was. So it wasn’t as bad and I know some of these guys that were infantry guys they just stayed out in the woods, in the jungle. That wasn’t true where I was, we did have a place where we could go back and we [inaudible at 19:36] in the afternoon or sometime during that day. It don’t necessarily have to be in the afternoon you we all tried to break up the team where this one would go back and take a break, get something to eat, release yourself, couple of hours later, three or four hours later, eat and then you come back and relieve the other guy so that’s an ongoing process every day you know you going primarily all day until your time for coming in and we had some people that really worked with those guys and they knew that no one can go just twenty-four hours a day seven days a week especially in a situation like that so we would always try to break it up. These guys would go take a break, this guy-





“You stay here man the fort you know we go take a break,” so it was a rotation type thing we’d rotate like that on a twenty-hour a day basis.

	Z:	Is there anything else you want to talk about just because there’s a couple of minutes left.

	G:	For me you know I’m in the veteran group now with some of the older veterans like I am, some of the Vietnam veterans. My experience wasn’t where like some of the guys I heard them talk this morning that they was out in the field and they got wounded and things like that. We had a few casualties but I was fortunate enough, I didn’t get wounded in Vietnam and I guess I came out a little bit better than some others and I didn’t get hooked on drugs or anything like that when I was there. So I was able to function when I got back whereas a lot of my friends couldn’t. Even to the day is a lot of them suffering from a lot of trauma, nightmares, so we try to get all of those people, including me, into counseling now. When we first came out we didn’t have that so we got a lot of it now, we going through therapy, we going through counseling and we were in the Veteran Administration System where they looking at all of the things that happened to the soldier today so they trying to pick up on it. It was a lap between we didn’t have that type of support but now we got a lot of it so they’re trying to put them all in now to take care of them. So I think that’s a good thing. I didn’t suffer a lot like some of these guys did when I first got back and things happened to me as well because a lot of you don’t think of because when I came back I decided to stay in and make a career out of it and I also had a young family, young children coming on so I stayed busy a lot. When you stay busy a lot a lot of the stuff don’t





resonate in your mind what’s going on until you start winding down and then you have a chance to think about these things or something triggered that in you now. But other than that I guess my two other duties wasn’t bad. I was able to serve in Germany, Korea, and I started off in Vietnam but I also was able to serve in Germany. Served in Germany, served in Korea and anytime you go to a foreign country, any country you in somebody else’s country so you have to try to live by their rules and regulations and we did a lot of training in Germany. We did a lot of training in Korea, getting guys ready to go into the hotspots all around the world so you don’t really have time to just sit back and think about that and now since I’ve been out I think about it more now than when I was in because I’m constantly going on time and constantly busy on time. Then my children was coming on, I had to get them through school. Thank God it worked out for me but yeah that’s about it I guess.

	Z:	Thank you so much for your time. G:	Okay, thank you all.

[End of interview]









Transcribed by:

Amanda Lorenzo,

October 22, 2019

Audit-edited by:

Sandra Romero

December 20, 2019

Final edited by:

Sandra Romero

January 14, 2021