AAHP 644; Sharpe; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 644 Kevin Sharpe Interviewed by Rachel Hujsa 51 minutes | 21 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Kevin Sharpe goes into detail about his love and involvement of music since a young age. He goes into detail about his experiences travelling with Duke Ellington as a child singer. Mr. Sharpe also mentions his involvement with the Newark Boys’ Chorus. He then talks about his introduction to classical music through the self-teaching of the piano. Through this love of classical music, Mr. Sharpe talks about his various collegiate experiences in the field of classical music and all the lessons it gave him. Towards the end, Mr. Sharpe goes into detail about his experiences working at UF and how it has changed during his time working there.



Keywords: [Gainesville; University of Florida; UF; Music; Music School; African American History; Classical Music; Piano; Pianist; ]



AAHP 644

Interviewee: Kevin Sharpe Interviewer: Rachel Hujsa Date: April 9, 2019



H:  My name Rachel Hujsa. With the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, I’m sitting here with Dr. Kevin Sharpe a piano professor here at UF, on April 9th. 2019. My first question is: how did music become a part of your life?

	S:	Okay. Well thank you for this interview, I’m very honored to help you. I was born into a somewhat musical family. My mother and father weren’t really, really musical, though my dad was raised with fifteen brothers and sisters.

H:   Wow.



S:  And I believe five of them were in a singing group, so he sang a lot with them and they did a lot of traveling during his time as a singer. But naturally, as I was born, probably the first thing my family made me do was sing.

H:   Okay.



	S:	And so pretty much I started out as a singer. I have been in two Broadway shows, when I was young. Let’s see... Lost in the stars by Kurt Vonnegut, which was a very, very big success, and the other one, the Great White Hope, which was also a big success.

	H:	Wow, I had no idea.



	S:	Then after that, I started travelling with Duke Ellington, and that lasted for about six or seven years. We would travel all over the state doing his Sacred Music Concerts, which was some of the last authentic compositions that he did before he died. It was a big deal and was a lot of fun, and I think that’s where I probably





got the itch to really, really like music, because I fell in love with Duke Ellington. Even as a kid. He was very impressionable, and you know it’s funny that his name is Ellington because “elegance” is the word that comes up when I think— he was just a very classy, classy man. And he was really good to my family and they were good to him, and he loved my mother’s cooking. He just fell in love with my whole family.

	H:	And how old were you?



	S:	I’m gonna say anywhere between six and ten years old. H:	When you traveled with Duke Ellington?

	S:	Yes.



	H:	Oh my goodness!



	S:	It was very close that Broadway and Duke Ellington were together, but after I stopped with Duke Ellington cause I was getting too big—the part that I was playing in the Sacred Concerts was called “The Apple,” and basically the setting was the garden of Eden, where Eve was tempted by the devil and persuaded Adam to take a bite out of me. Then I talk about how taking the bite out of me affected my life and all the kind of—it was very funny. But point is, I was supposed to be a kid and I was getting too big for it. So, the other big influence during that time—you know I’m a [19]60s child, I was born in [19]59. So there was one other person who was making a splash with his family, with his other four brothers, and since I was on Broadway and touring with Duke Ellington it did not seem improbable that I could have a big career as a child singer and prodigy,





if you will. So Michael Jackson really was a big influence in my life for myself and for my mom and dad because we grew up with The Jackson 5 and it was the rhythm of the day for a lot of African American youth during that generation. So, it was a huge, huge, huge influence. So I was crazy enough to think that I could compete directly with him. I didn’t think he was much to defeat, but that was just my youthful arrogance. But anyway, Michael Jackson was a huge influence, and so I kept the singing up, and I joined what was called at the time the Newark Boys Chorus.

	H:	Could you spell that really quickly? S:	N-E-W-A-R-K. Boys’ Chorus.

	H:	Okay thank you.



	S:	And then after a while because we started out as the Newark Boys’ Chorus because Newark, at that time, that was the genesis—it was around the Civil Rights Movement, which was a few years before my birth. But it was an integral part of our society, the awakening, the static, the talk, about African American or I don’t know what the word was at that time, but I guess it was “African American” or “Black” issues, and our place in society. So, Newark was kind of popular because at that time during the [19]60s, there were several riots. Newark was heavily Jewish community and very, very well developed, but because of the riots and stuff that occurred in [19]67and [19]68, people moved out of Newark. For example, there was even a Steinway Hall in Newark, New Jersey. I remember exactly where it was. It didn’t mean anything to me then, but there was a





Steinway Hall in Newark New Jersey, big parks, and concert halls, and all those things just closed downs after the riots. The people who moved out, I don’t know where they went, but it wasn’t Newark. They got out. So, as a result, to make a positive spin on things, you had everything was Newark, Newark, Newark. So the Newark Boys’ Choir was a very positive way of looking at what African Americans were doing within their communities, and we traveled all over the world. After a while, the whole “PC” movement about Newark kind of wavered off and we changed our name to the New Jersey Boy’s Chorus, and it’s no small wonder, I mean I think about it now and I’m just amazed when I think about it because if you think of all the talented and the pop stars that came out of Newark New Jersey, I mean, where do you start? There’s Whitney Houston, Mary J, Buster Douglas, Queen Latifah, Derek Reagan, Kevin Maynard. Jesus, it just keeps going on, and I’m never surprised to hear that somebody was born and raised in Newark, because it was really a haven. There was even Dione Warwick, Sissy Houston. All these people went to my grandmother’s church, Bethel Baptist church in New Jersey. And you know, Whitney, when I was a kid, she wasn’t a big thing, obviously because she was kinda, I guess you say “born and bred to be a star,” that happened very quickly for her. We’d hear tales and rumors that she showed up to church today in a big mink coat, and nobody could see her face because the collar was so big and she was hiding under it. So we’d hear things like that, and it didn’t mean anything to me ‘cause I didn’t know who Whitney Houston was. But it was a haven for a lot of incredible musicians— there’s Samuel, oh, what is it, Savion Glover, I mean, really just hundreds of





names that came out of Newark. And I’m just glad to be in the number. But anyway, so after the New Jersey Boys’ Choir, I was about twelve or thirteen years old and of course puberty hits, and my voice starts to change, and I did not like that. I was a boy soprano and I was good in the choir school. Derek Reagan was also in the choir with us, and there were a number of other young men that are very famous now whose names escape me. But Derek is the one that I— cause we both grew up as kids together. Derek went on to become the foremost countertenor in the world, and basically he’s credited with the resurgence of countertenor in 21st century Western performance. Anyway, Derek went through that, and I just didn’t like the feeling of my voice changing. So I stopped singing. But I went to a Catholic school, St. Charles is my degree right there, but I was only there or the seventh and the eighth grade. And for those two years, the lack of singing proved to be pretty significant because I had to keep up some sort of musical profile because I just loved music. So I started learning piano. I was a self-taught pianist.

	H:	How did you get to classical music then?



	S:	Well, that was basically all that was available. There was church music, which I was not interested in, I was not interested in jazz. I knew there was Andre Watts but he was already at the top of his game, ‘cause he started when he was sixteen and he got his big break when he was sixteen because he was adopted by Leonard Bernstein. But anyway, I just taught myself piano. There were piano books in the house. I just taught myself to do one hand at a time, one finger at a time, and that turned out to be a very, very good outlet for me because turns out I





was very interested and I just kind of flew through the material even though I was teaching myself. My parents and my family recognized that I was beginning to need to help because I had just outgrown everything that was at my fingertips that was in the house. So, we went to Juilliard and I auditioned to study with Martin Canin I believe, and he did not accept me as a student right then, but he did offer that I could prepare to become his student by studying with his wife, which was not interesting to me because that meant scales and exercises and I wasn’t having it. I just wasn’t doing it. I was not interested. Plus, it was very expensive at that time. I believe he wanted like, I don’t know—it was extremely expensive and I knew that my parents could not really afford the weekly private lessons. So I elected not to go to study with him, and so I joined a school called the Newark School of the Arts. Well, that’s what it’s called now. When I was a kid it was called the Newark Community Center for the Arts. And from there I was given scholarships where I was given two lessons a week. Every day after high school I would walk to my teacher’s house and we’d have lessons. You know I didn’t go to high school in Newark, I went to high school in South Orange New Jersey, called Seton Hall Prep. Now everybody’s heard of Seton Hall, but not too many people are aware that there’s a prep school. And it’s an all boy’s prep school. So that was fine. We had a lot of fun doing that but, I attended high school during the day, and then I would walk around the corner and have my piano lessons with Ms. Curcio. And that was a lot of fun, and I grew leaps and bounds under Ms. Curcio, everything she told me.

	H:	And could you spell that?





	S:	Curcio? Louise Curcio. L-O-U-I-S-E, C-U-R-C-I-O. H:	Thank you.

	S:	And it was a lot of fun because Seton Hall was kind of interesting because being that it was South Orange, New Jersey. There was big mix of different races, but in this time it was basically the Italian kids and the African American kids. I don’t wanna say that there were racial divides, but we were aware that we were from different cultures. And of course it was in high school, there was a lot of teasing, bullying, yada-yada-yada. We all got through, we had fun, and to be very honesty with you a lot of us stay in touch. So I speak to the guys in my high school. In fact I’m still very good friends with quite a few of them. But after high school it was kind of weird because I didn’t know what I was going to do. I had no clue. I had not taken music that serious that I wanted it to be a career. I just simply wanted to be good at it. I didn’t think that I wanted to do this as a career. But I knew that I was good enough musically to get into a school, I shouldn’t say of my choice— turns out that yeah, I could’ve gone anywhere I wanted to, I just didn’t know where to go—I knew that Julliard was too expensive so that wasn’t a possibility. So I auditioned on a whim because my friend Derek Reagan did it the year before—I think Derek was a year older but Derek had auditioned and he got into Oberlin conservatory. And when I was in school I thought “Okay, well I’ll just probably follow Derek” so I didn’t care, I didn’t know what Oberlin was, I didn’t even know where it was, said I’ll audition for it. The auditions were in New York at the Steinway Hall and I went there and I auditioned, I played Brahms, I played Prokofiev, I played Mozart, and just went home and next morning at about six in





the morning I get a phone call, and it’s Derek. He said “Kevin, what did you do? What did you do?” I said “What are you talking about?” and he says “You played so well at your audition the man that auditioned you was in tears! He was just talking about how beautiful your Brahms was.” And I’m like, “What?” So I knew that I had gotten into Oberlin. And it was funny because the guidance counselor at my high school, he knew my GPA and my SAT scores and everything and he thought that there was no way I’d get into Oberlin, because Oberlin is a college as well. And it was sort of Ivy-League but not. So even though it is a private school, it’s a very expensive school to go to, but it is a very, very fine institution. And what he’d done is he’d just called several of my friends into his office and said “Guys, please, don’t let Kevin apply for Oberlin cause he won’t get in and I don’t want him to feel bad!” So I got the acceptance letter from Oberlin and so I remember taking the letter up and I kinda walked past his door smiling, holding the letter of acceptance. [Laughter] He was like, “How the hell did you get in?” He didn’t know that there was a conservatory. I got into the conservatory and I went there. Oberlin was the first time that I had any taste of what real music study and the real musical environment was. I had no idea what it was. I was surprised that it was very cutthroat and competitive, which I did not like. I did not embrace that, a lot of the guys that I went to school with I’m in contact with but I have not much to say to them, because pretty much 90 percent of them were all very competitive in an extremely unhealthy way. And it just turned me off from being as passionate about music as I should have been. So basically I studied with Frances Walker, she was a wonderful, wonderful teacher. And she was a mother.





I was very used to being sheltered by my family and by my uncles. They brought me up in a way that I had to learn to be well-mannered and respectful, and I held onto those values because that’s, like I said, you can’t escape your family, you can’t escape who you are. But my parents and my family put a lot of work into me, so I respected them for that and I really tried to stay on point. But Oberlin, I just did not focus because I guess it was my first time being away from home for a long time and I didn’t feel like I didn’t have any friends that cared for me, I felt that the only person that really concerned themselves with my growth was my teacher Ms. Walker. And like I said I didn’t take it seriously, and that was very frustrating for her. But, here’s where the funny part starts, graduate school. “Okay, I’m about to graduate, where am I gonna go?” So Ms. Walker hands me a flyer to a school in Michigan and I take it, and it’s an advertisement for a graduate assistantship in Michigan, so I’m like, “Great, I’ll apply for that! I’m going to Michigan!” and I thought it was University of Michigan. This is a story just to show you how stupid I was, but, the fact is, I applied for the school, I got the assistantship, and I went there, and I’m like “Where the heck am I?” I was at Northern Michigan University in Marquette! So I’m like, “Huh?” I thought this was University of Michigan!

	H:	Oh no!



	S:	So I stayed there the year, and I just basically started practicing and learning repertoire. I learned everything. In fact I think that was the year that I learned the complete Bach Partitas, all of them. And just messing around and learning repertoire. My teacher at that time, his name was Barry Goldsmith, and I’ve been





trying to find him, but he had just left Indiana and started this job at Michigan. And he heard me play and he just started shaking his head. Then he says, “I’m sorry to tell you this, and I’m sorry to do this to myself, but you are in the wrong school.” I said, “What do you mean?” He says, “You do not belong here. You belong at my school, Indiana. I don’t know that you can study with my teacher. But I think that you can study with Mr. Pressler and,” yada-yada-yada. Well he didn’t know that I had already met Mr. Pressler. Because when I was trying to find a school to go to after high school, the director of the Newark Community Center had gotten in touch with Mr. Pressler and asked Mr. Pressler if he would listen to me. So, Mr. Pressler’s trio had appeared at the library in Montclair, New Jersey, and my mom and dad took me there, and he hadn’t arrived yet but Bernie Greenhouse, the cellist, was already there, so he told me that I could come up on stage and warm up on the piano. So, I started playing. I played the Chopin Andante Spianato, the Polonaise, and yada-yada-yada, and I was just having a good time warming up waiting for Mr. Pressler. The theater was kinda dark, so the next thing, I’m sitting down playing and then I’m hearing this voice [Transylvanian accent], “Ah, Bernard, I didn’t know you could play Chopin.” And so I look over, and there’s this short man in this big black cape with red lining, I thought it was Dracula, you know? And he whisks this cape off and he throws it on to the floor and he says, “Oh, yes, you’re the young man I’m supposed to listen to.” The blood went out of my veins, I was so scared crapless. This man just intimidated me from minute one. He was only five foot three and it was the weirdest thing in my life, but this short man had me scared crapless! [Laughter]





Anyway, turns out I played for him and he says “Oh! I will accept you into my studio. You have to understand that you’re going to have to work very, very, very hard.” Turn off! So I went to Oberlin, went to a different school and all that stuff. So when I got to Michigan I had already known Mr. Pressler, but I didn’t expect the teacher at Michigan to say that I should go study with him. So, he set up the audition, I took a bus to Indiana, and auditioned, and of course I got in, and Mr. Pressler remembered me.

	H:	Aw.



	S:	And he says, “Why did you not come study with me four years ago?” Or three? And I said—‘cause I can think on my feet when I want to ‘cause I knew I was in some place or territory I had never imagined, so I was like “Put your thinking cap on,” and I thought of the smartest thing I could say. “I wasn’t ready to work that hard?” And he looked at me and says “Okay. Very wise decision, because if you did not work hard, it would have not worked out for you. So, I hope you’ve changed your mind now.” And I said “Yes I’ve changed my mind.” So, my very first lesson at IU with Mr. Pressler…good. As soon as I left his office I went straight into the practice room. And that’s pretty much where my life changed, and that’s when I made the decision actually to just work my butt off and become the best that I could be. And the rest is here, and I gotta tell you as far as Indiana’s concerned, I call those the “glory days,” because, again, I was lucky to be amongst so many fabulous pianists. The Chao brothers, Alvin, who is a very dear friend, his brother Allen, Alvin’s wife, Angela Chang, is a very, very fine pianist. Oh my goodness. Andy Degrodo, Jonathan Bass…there’s just so many





of them—Morifa Bee, I mean just incredible—Helen Jenet, I mean, just wonderful, wonderful pianists. Patricia Tau, Cindy Zebo, Terry Spiller, Jacques Dupre, I mean there was just so many. And I hadn’t noticed that I was the only African American. And for some of the guys in Indiana, I was kinda weird to them because in many situations I was the first African American some of the students had met. So, that was kinda weird for them, so I was kinda weird to them. But we were friends. We got all over that. We all started smoking because we wanted to be the best European pianists we could be and yadda, yadda, yadda. So it was a magical, magical time and I just fell in love with music. I fell in love with the journey. Mr. Pressler…I don’t think this was his intention, but because of the way he taught, because of his honesty and purity in approaching the musical score, that kinda spilled over to me becoming a better person, not just a better pianist.

He has no clue what he’s done, but for all of his students I’d say that that is the number one component that we all felt and were inspired by. The fact he was so relentlessly in love with following the score and making the music come off the page. Not for the sake of oneself but for the sake of the music. For the sake of the composer’s intentions, and the way that he would do it for himself was so inspiring and it touched us all. And I know for me, when he did that [knock on door]—would you get that for me please?

	H:	Yeah I will. What should I say…?



	S:	Come on in Adam. This is my oldest son. [Break in Recording]













	S:	It was just a magical, magical time. What I think we would all say about Mr.



Pressler is that because of his approach, which was genuine, spiritual, and very loving, for me, that spoke to my heart and it therefore kinda triggered my imagination and I started making things up beyond what he was teaching, which is why I’m the crazy teacher I am now. And you know he would even say—he said to me that, “I had no idea that I was creating this kind of monster.” I told him that I had commissioned a book of poetry from a poet and he thought that was the weirdest thing. He was like “I taught you to do that?” But he touched my heart and my imagination with his love for music, and it was the most powerful gift any human could give another. Like I said, it affected my life, it became my life. After several years of studying with him, I became his favorite. I really did. Other students were a little concerned, which was fine with me, but Mr. Pressler would always tell them how good I was doing and how happy I made him and all things, and were best friends. Then of course the University of Florida came knocking.

And I had just finished my masters. So basically I came to audition for this position, and at that time it was 1984, and it was an affirmative action position. There weren’t many African American pianists available at that time. The only ones that I knew of during my generation was Moses Hogan, who just passed away, and there was a few others that went into administration, they just left performance, and that was pretty much it. There was another young man by the name of Awadagin Prett, who was I think ten years younger, but he was making a splash like two or three years after me. Anyway, I started at Florida and it was





an affirmative action position, and at that time, when universities were hiring professors and stuff like that, it was more of a concern that the professor fit the profile of the hiring description, and my case, it was more important that I was African American, because it was an affirmative action position. But none of this I knew at the time, but I got the job, and it was accompanying. And if there is one thing I hated, I hated, I hated accompanying. When I was supposed to do it in Indiana I would always duck or dodge, or if I had to play for somebody’s lesson I’d be sight reading. So kids hated me as an accompanist at IU, they just hated me. And that’s find I didn’t want to do it anyway! But I’d still get A’s for doing it because very cleverly I’d sign up for a teacher that didn’t really need me to play for their students. So I didn’t play! I got my ensemble credit for doing nothing.

When I came here, I was supposed to be an accompanist, I was like “Oh, crap.” But it was a job, and I knew that I was gonna have to get a job soon because I was gonna have to take care of my mom and dad. So several years later my father died, and I had this position, and back then University of Florida was different. In the forty years that I’ve been here society and the University has changed. I don’t want to put a dark cloud over the interview, but one of my most memorable experiences when I first came here, I think the first week that I was here on faculty was the first time I’d ever been called a “nigger,” to my face. And that was of course down stairs in the front office.

	H:	By another teacher?



	S:	By a secretary. And I didn’t know how to react so I kinda laughed and I didn’t say anything. And it happened a few years later and basically I hit the teacher that





said it to me, and then I complained, and I went straight to the president—not the president, actually, the provost, at that time his name was Andrew Sorenson, and I spoke to the provost about that. But like I said, over the years things have changed. I’ve seen a lot of new faculty come, and I was a little jaded because I was a good, good, pianist, but like I said the profile that I had in this school was not really concerned that I was a good pianist. And that’s not the University’s fault, that’s just the way that things happen in academia. It was more important that I was African American in this position. So, basically, I was like a poster boy, and I felt a lot of resentment because people loved my playing, they always came to my concerts, I had huge support, I had a lot of people following me, but as far as the University was concerned I wasn’t important, because I was in this position so it didn’t matter, and that really bothered me, so I was just basically trying to throw myself at the University saying, “I’m here, I’m here!” and it didn’t matter, and it was very frustrating. But over the years, like I said it’s changed now. I look at the faculty that are here now, the newer faculty, and I’m amazed!

And because of them, I think this school of music has a very, very bright future. You know, when you’ve been on a faculty as long as I’ve had, you’ve been through a lot of things. You collect your scars, you collect your victories, and they mean nothing, because a lot of schools, when they hire a professor, they want either that professor to continue doing what they’re doing and bring their accolades to their school, or the school wants to define what they want this professor to do or be, and I wasn’t about that. ‘Cause like I said, university of Florida wanted me to be an accompanist, they wanted me to be this—they





wanted to put me in some box. And I’m like, “Wait a minute, I’m a great pianist, which means that I can play solo, I can play chamber, and accompanying. So screw you.” So I became somewhat uncontrollable to the administration. But still, like I said, people supported me because I could back up what—I hate to use the word bragging about—but yeah. That was what it was, bragging. But going back to my point because I digress. All schools, not just music schools, when you have high-profile professors and colleagues, they don’t like each other. I mean like at Indiana, the teachers just—there was no socialization, they didn’t like each other, the couldn’t stand each other! But they didn’t have time to not like each other.

They were busy with their careers, performing, lecturing, teaching, and doing conferences. They didn’t have time to do a lot of things other schools would do when faculty don’t get along. But I look at this new faculty that we have, and these guys are on the freaking ball! I mean they’re doing their jobs, they’re going out, they’re getting their reputations and publishing and performing, and I’m amazed. Cause that’s what we’re supposed to be. They don’t have to love each other. I like to say, “I don’t wanna sleep with you I just want a piece of cheesecake.” And I really feel like we have the opportunity now to become something because people are doing their jobs honestly, without having the university define what they’re supposed to do. And that’s the way it can grow, because these people are doing these things for themselves and the University is now embracing what they’re able to bring to the University, and that is the strength of this School of Music and the University as a whole. Truthfully, I have not enjoyed all my years at University of Florida. No one does. But miraculously, I





am now, which is very strange! But I’ve got, oh Jesus, what, seventeen kids this year or this semester? And I love them to death, and they love me. And it’s only the kind of job that I can do. I can’t imagine somebody else in this position because to reach these kids, you have to be honest, and you have to be a human being, and they have to see and perceive you as that. They can’t see you as something that’s intangible or someone that they can’t approach. They see me as someone they can talk to be and that they can be themselves with. And I encourage that. I say in my studio, “This is not a democracy. If you have a difference in opinion, state it, but with respect.” My name is on the door, not yours. And we have a dialogue that is honest, you know if I’m having class and there’s something that’s happening in the class, or someone’s acting a way, we’ll talk about it, and I’ll bless that person out in front of everybody. There’s no mysteries. Because that way everybody learns what the boundaries are. But if I’m doing something that’s out of place or say something that’s—they jump on me in a minute. All over me! And I’m like—I’ll run for cover! And I like that kind of dynamic because in that way we have a very good foundation for teacher-pupil. I can’t get them to be the pianist I want them to be unless I can get them to be the people I need them to be. Focused in pursuit of their dreams, in pursuit of their ideas, and able to stand on their own two feet, having self-confidence, learning self-confidence. All these things are very, very important to these kids. And this kind of teaching can be difficult because it’s hard in teaching careers now.

There’s so many things that you have to watch out for. But I refuse to give up on my kids and they refuse to give up on me. So it’s a pleasant and fun experience.





I’ve gotta say, I’ve run the full gamut here at UF and our new dean, I’m just blown away by her! I love the way she is as a person, she’s very professional, and she smiles, but she’s also incredibly approachable. I guess I wouldn’t say I wouldn’t care what she thinks about me, but I think she is strong enough as a person to realize that my self-worth is something that I am in charge of. And she is not the type of person to interfere with that, and I feel so many people want to put you in your place. “I’m this, I’m that, and you have to treat me this way.” I don’t think Dean Ozuzu is like that, so I really like the dynamic now that I’m seeing between the administration and the faculty. So now, my story is that I’m engaged, I’m going to get marry a gentleman by the name of Giovanni Rosario Medina, he’s Dominican.

	H:	Congratulations!



	S:	We’ve been together for about five to six years now. So I mean for me, as I just turned sixty here at the University of Florida as a School of Music professor, I think the future is bright for everyone, everywhere. I’m really just blown away by society’s acceptance of transgender lifestyles, and they fact that guys or women can get married. I just think that society is going to where it needs to go. I was just looking at an interview where these guys are arguing that gender is not binary, and whatever that means, the fact is, nothing belongs in a box. I see that because of the acceptance of these kinds of ideas and these aspects of human nature—that’s well put, I like that—these aspects of human nature, people are become more and more acceptable, and therefore the boxes are disappearing, we’re all complicated, but as a result, because we know how to approach things,





we’re becoming more sensible and more sensitive to each other, and “Oops! What a mistake are we supposed to be this way?” No, but it’s happening. And I’m just excited about the future. I really honestly feel that the tensions with regards to race, regards to sexual preference—that shouldn’t even be a consideration.

Retract that. Race, religion, gender, male or female issues, all of these boxes are going away. And it’ll take a little bit more time but we’re getting there. I just think I’m just lucky to be here. That’s all I have to say. So, do you have any more questions?

	H:	I think we’re cutting into his lesson a little bit…? S:	He’ll give me two minutes is that okay?

	H:	Okay! I just wanted to ask, do you think it’s on the administration’s radar to sort of open up the student population at the College of Music to more diversity?

	S:	Of course! Absolutely. H:	Is there an active effort?

	S:	Yes. As far as I know. There’s a consciousness. There’s been a consciousness I think for a while, and to be very honest with you, I think that’s why we have the dean that we have now, because she is very, very— in fact I believe she’s an expert in diversity issues, so I know that the administration is looking at that. I have heard eighty-year-old professors say in committees that they are so blown away saying multi-racial, not unions, but so many different races that are impacting each other. [Knock that the door] Is somebody at the door? And they’re in love with each other. There’s a consciousness of being sensitive to other





people and where they come from and who they are as people or human beings. I’ve heard old people say these things, that they’re excited to see things to see the acceptance of transgender, gender preferences, and all these different kind of—I’m blown away by a lot of things that I’ve seen here. The only thing that I think makes sense is the timing of Dena Ozuzu getting here and all these things awakening, and I know that the University is aware that we have to become more open and more accepting and more sensitive—let me use that word again, sensitive to the treatment of human beings and to the way they need to be supported and I shouldn’t say “Dealt with,” but just supported. So, yeah, there is a consciousness, yes, absolutely. You see me sitting here, my Jewish student wears his yarmulke.

	H:	And you’re wearing one too!



	S:	And I’m wearing one for him because I applaud his bravery to stand on his feet, to be who he is. I’m a living bumper sticker. I love the idea that students can fall in love with who they are, and that’s what I think my job is as a teacher, because the correlation between music and self is to learn to love the music and therefore yourself. So it’s all related. It’s all related. All of the disciplines are related. The art of medicine, the art of love, the art of education, the art of music. We’re not perfect, we’re learning, we’re getting there. But these are all tools that are gifted to us by the almighty, which we are to learn to better ourselves for the betterment of the world. That’s what I teach my kids. It’s not about them, it’s about the score. And when you’re able to get away from your inward thinking, that’s when you become a member of society.





	H:	And a good musician.



	S:	And a good musician. I—Are we done? [Laughter] H:	Yeah I’m sorry!

	S:	If you want more time, you can get more time. H:	Well thank you so much!







[End of Interview]



Transcribed by:

Rachel Hujsa

April 25, 2019

Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

January 7, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

November 18, 2020