AAHP 116; Hughes; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 116 Betty White Hughes African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 21, 2010 25 minutes | 14 pages



Abstract: Betty White Hughes reflects on growing up in Perry, Florida, and the experiences of herself and most of her family attending Jerkins High School. She describes some of her family history, and her early schooling which took place in churches and other buildings before she arrived at Jerkins. She also discusses the community values she grew up with, and the impacts that integration had on the Black community in Perry. And she mentions some of the teachers at Jerkins who most impacted her.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; Integration]



Standards

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.7.8 Analyze significant Supreme Court decisions relating to integration, busing, affirmative action, the rights of the accused, and reproductive rights.

































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 116

Interviewee: Betty White Hughes Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 21, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program on August 21, 2010, interviewing Ms. Betty White Hughes.

	H:	Yes, I’m Betty White Hughes and I’m a product of Taylor County. In fact, I was born and reared here. My mother’s name is Arabelle Simmons White, and I grew up, for the early part of my life, I grew up in an extended family home with my uncles and aunts and cousins. We all lived together and during that time, I started school when I was about four years old because I would follow my brother to school. And I remember Mrs. Wright, one of the teachers--she was a first-grade teacher—she said since Betty is interested in coming to school let her come. So I started school when I was four years old because I had an interest in going to school. My grandfather was Charlie Simmons, and he was a well-known person in the community. In fact, all of my uncles attended school at Jerkins, three of them went to the military. One was in the navy, one the army, and I think the other uncle was in the air force. But I know that all of them served in the military. One uncle left here and went to St. Petersburg, and he became a pharmacy when he went to Pennsylvania. In fact, my grandmother’s relatives.

And my grandmother’s name was Olive West Simmons, so the West family, a lot of the members of that family lived in Pennsylvania. So my uncle, when he went to school in St. Petersburg, he transferred and went to Pennsylvania. And as a result he became a pharmacy for that area. And he’s now retired. And I have an uncle that lives in Fernandina, and one that lives in Pennsylvania. And there was one that lived in Sarasota but he’s deceased and his family members live there





and he had a business, a construction business that he did. My grandfather was first and probably, I should say, a limited amount of education. But he did attend school. He could read well. And if he had been in this era during his life he would have been a very successful businessman because he could do construction. In fact, he built the houses, and he rented houses that he built. And he built several houses: the house that we lived in, that I grew up in, and then he built another house and my mother moved into that house so it’s like family. My aunt Pauline lived down at the end, in one of the houses, and then there was my mother, and then in the middle there were houses that he rented. But he could do all kinds of handy jobs. He did electrical work, he did plumbing so with the skills he had, if he had had extra training he would have been a lucrative businessman. I attended schools in churches. The first year that I attended school it was at Sweet Home Church, and you probably heard that before. And then I attended school at New Hope Baptist Church, that was across the street from where we lived. And then I also attended the Louisiana Juke, but there might be another name for it. But I remember attending school down in Brooklyn, and so at Jerkins, when I first came it was during my elementary years. We did not have a lunch room built when they first opened the school, so we pulled our chairs together, our desks together and we would have lunch there after we washed up. And I remember that in this school that we attended, and in other schools that we attended that were church buildings, they always had devotion, and I learned a lot about the Bible, not just from the school, but also in the home. Because my family was a very religious family, we all grew AME’s, and I remember attending Sunday





school as well, and my grandfather was a superintendent of the Sunday school. It was a must-go-to-church kind of thing, you did not just decide you did not want to go. But at school there were religious values taught and our schools were better off to me, because I taught in the Taylor County school system for 39 years and I retired in 2008. But the schools back when I was in school were much better because the teachers demanded that you learn. And then there was cooperation in the community from your parents. So if you came in school and you misbehaved and the teacher told your parents you got a spankin’ or a whippin’.

No spankin’, it was a whippin’ when you got home because they did not send you to school to misbehave or be disrespectful. They sent you to school to learn so that you would have a better life than they had. And the teachers that taught us, they instilled in us that we could be someone. And to this day I remember them encouraging us, there were no teachers that talked down to me and I don’t remember that in any of our classes, that they talked down to you or they belittle you. They would always say you can do this or you’re going to be someone, or you can go to college because you’re smart. And it was always those encouraging words that we heard. But my first teaching assignment was here, at this school, the last year that this school was open, that was my first year. And also my first year here I was nominated as the outstanding teacher of the year, and I made a copy of this. Outstanding teacher of the year, and it had Betty Hughes on it. Outstanding teacher, Jerkins High, this honor is conferred this day, and it was June 1, 1970, and this was by the student council president and then the president of the senior class, I can assume, and then this was the principal,





Howard L. Warner. And I made a copy of that, I happened to be going through some things.

	W:	Is this a copy I can keep?



	H:	You can keep that. And I saw that, and I said, wow, and I made a copy of it. And my husband said to me that I should take this, but back to the integrated school. The students that were at Jerkins, they lost a lot, integration cost us a lot in terms of, I look at the number of students who graduated and they became doctors and lawyers and that kind of thing but there are still students who are doing well, but then just think they had little and they did much with little. And we had an abundance of new textbooks and this kind of thing, and I bet if we compared the early years of Jerkins or those students who graduated from Jerkins compared to the students who graduated from the integrated schools, you would probably have more productivity during those years than you had with the integrated situation. We lost a lot in terms of our morals when our students went to integrate, then there were teachers that did not accept them and they had to deal with those words that were not so comfortable like the N-word that they were called. And there were a lot of controversy about that, and in fact that children would actually fight if you called them that. That was degrading and it was something that they could not handle. They were not accustomed to that so they had to battle that, then the battle with the teachers not teaching them fairly in class. No matter what they did, if they were in the right they still were not treated fairly. But there were also those teachers who were fair and who believed in teaching children regardless of whether they were Black or White. And then there





were the teachers who came over we had to deal with, teachers who really didn’t like the fact that we were there because of the color of our skin. But we had a lot to offer, but we had to earn respect, or demand respect of the whole faculty in fact. And then as the years passed, students had a lot of regard for me as a teacher, even though they might have said that I was mean. I was not mean, I was just firm, and then I did not write down if it was the rule it was the rule. And that’s the way it was through my tenure in the Taylor County school system. But I enjoyed teachin’, and I enjoyed workin’ with those students that my first year I can always go back and reflect that the students were interested in learning. And there was no nonsense approach. There were students that would try you or they might talk when you said not talk but they knew what the punishment would be going to the office. They could not be tardy to class because when the bell had rung they knew that the door was closed, and the teacher was standing at the door. And they got a couple licks for being late, so the next time they would report to class on time and do their work. They did their work in class and they respected their teachers, and that was real important. But as I worked through those other 38 years I gained the respect of my students and they knew when I came into that classroom, that it was no nonsense. Even the White students, they respected me as a teacher even though they might have said that I was mean. But they really knew that I was not mean, that I was just a firm, strict teacher that wanted the no nonsense approach to the classroom and that the children were there to learn and that’s why they were sent to school. So I guess I





can include that when I did retire in 2008 and I thank God that He allowed me to have that experience for 39 years.

	W:	I’m fascinated about your comment about the difference when the schools were integrated. What do you think was that element that the schools changed from segregation to integration? Some people talk about a sense of community that exited beyond the school. What do you attribute it to?

	H:	I think that that’s the case, too. It was, and not only that students were able to mangle with students with other children that were from a different culture, and to me they adopted some of their ideas, and some of their beliefs and that kind of stuff. And there were students that, where they did not get the same kind of support that they had when they were at an all-Black school. But there was a family-oriented thing. Everybody cared about you and if you did something wrong there were people in the neighborhood that reported you as well as the teachers reported to your parents. And your parents, you were not allowed to disagree. If she said you did this, you did it. So it’s no nonsense. So they knew in the beginning that if I act up at school someone is going to tell my mother and I’m going to really get it, or tell my parents and I’m gonna really get it. They lost that sense of community where you can hear and a lot of times the children were not treated fairly. I’m a witness to that, that they were not, then you had to intervene. I know in the case of my children, we had two children I should say, that attended this school. One was in kindergarten and the other one was in second grade when the schools integrated. So that was my son, Lawrence, he graduated from Taylor County High and he attended Florida A&M University and became a





pharmacist. And my daughter, Michelle, she was in kindergarten and she graduated from Florida A&M University. In fact, all of our children have degrees from Florida A&M University. And that was a resort. And they missed, and they said they missed, the kind of environment that we had at an all-Black school. But they got a chance to experience what we experienced in high school going to Florida A&M University. They had that sense of community again where their teachers cared about what they did. And which they didn’t get that from all of their teachers but there were teachers who were very concerned about their education, and who encouraged them to do good. And there were other people that you cannot change, only God can change. They will be mean and hateful to the day they die unless God intervenes and changes them. But I appreciate you interviewing me and thank you very much, and I hope that I have been helpful.

	W:	Oh, you definitely have. In fact, I’m sitting here listening to you and thinking about the Taylor County Leadership Association and being involved and the teachers that helped to mentor students along the way. And my thoughts are brought to the question of leadership. What do you think are the characteristics that make up a leader, with the kind of people who kind of put this together this weekend?

	H:	First of all, these people at one time had to be followers, because being a follower you learn leadership skills watching others. So just look at Mr. Archie McCloud, leader of his school, in fact he was the principal and then vocational director or I guess that’s his title. But it begins with learning how to follow, you cannot be a leader unless you have learned to follow. And this is what I’ve always said. And then as a follower, that means you have been places where





you can lead someone else to go, ‘cause you cannot lead where you have not been. So as a follower, and you pick up ideas from other people being a follower that helps you to become a leader, leadership. And I didn’t say anything about what I used to do when I was high school, and I want to back up a little bit. I was a cheerleader from 10 to 12 grade and I also played on the basketball from 10 to 12 grade, so I was very active in school and not only that, I did real well when I was in high school. In fact, I was in the National Honor Society at Jerkins. And then I went to junior college. It was Suwannee River Junior College and it was a fun experience, but at the same time we took skills from this school that made us stand out at a junior college. Because they would say the students from Perry, and we were good in our classes, and they provided a bus for us and that was a fun thing because we were all on that bus and we went to Suwannee River. I’ve seen some people that I went to school with at Suwannee River and it was enjoyable experience, it was a learning experience, and we did very well. We were very successful because we also had that sense of family and teachers who cared and wanted us to be productive members of society.

	W:	Do you remember who the bus driver was?



	H:	It was one of our students, one of the students was Frank Brown, he was a classmate. I believe he was the bus driver, I believe he was. Frank drove us to Madison, and that was just really fun. And not only was it some of our classmates but there were some older people that had graduated from Jerkins who decided to go back to school. And I remember specifically Miss Barbara Tillman, who was on that bus with us. She’s deceased now but she was one of the students and





she later became a teacher. And she retired from the Madison County school system. But those were, as we call it, the good old days, when there was a sense of community when people cared and they wanted you to be productive. They didn’t say things like you’re not going be anything all your life and knocking people. Even in the home as I grew up I felt very special because my parents and my grandparents, they never talked down to us, they always made us feel special and they told us that you are going to be someone and you are smart.

But people tell you something long enough you will believe it and it has a positive effect, just like when someone says something negative to you long enough you become whatever they say to you. So that sense of community has really made us the kind of people that we are. And all of that they never left God out of the equation for success. And that makes a difference. Whatever we do in life we cannot leave God out because we will not be as successful as we can be if we leave Him out of the equation.

	W:	What is your personal definition of leadership?



	H:	My personal definition of leadership is a person who can impact others to follow. So you if you can impact, you have that drawing card, a personality that you can impact others to do the things that you have in mind or things that you felt about doing it. If you can get them to follow you. That is my definition. If you have the kind of impact on others that would motivate them to follow you, then that’s leadership.

	W:	So why are you here this weekend?





	H:	I’m here to reminisce and to meet people that I haven’t seen in a while and kind of reflect back on the days. I remember the cafeteria and the good old food, and I remember the ladies working in the lunch room.

	W:	What were their names?



	H:		One of them was Miss Minnie Smith, and you interviewed Miss Newberry. There was Mrs. Jones, that lived across the street but that was not her name, I think Miss Eva Jones, and there was Mrs., I can’t think of the other lady that lived across town but I think that someone. I thought about the good food, that food that, we didn’t get that kind of food at Taylor County High School. But that good old Jerkins food, you know that good old soul home cooking. I remember the lima beans and rice with the chunks of ham hock in it. I remember the fried fish that we were having. Not only that, if they had food left over or they would tell us to come back because we got some food left if you all want seconds, you wouldn’t hear that at the other schools to come back and you can get seconds if you wanted. And a lot of times we would go back and get seconds. And I thought about how cheap the food was, 15 cents, and I remember I think during my senior year lunch might have been as much as 20 cents for a meal, paid a dollar for the whole week. So you know that wasn’t bad and that dinner was good food that you had, nourishing food and the people were so kind and, you know, they were just like home. That environment was just like home.

	W:	You can get choked up hearing about something like that. H:	Yes you can, you really can.





	W:	What do you think is gonna be the follow-through from this? There’s this huge activity. So many people are here talking, sharing memories, laughing, you know, crying together. And supposedly two years from now there’ll be the next reunion. So what are your expectations for this next installment?

	H:	I’m hoping that with them becoming a historic site that we’ll be able to get funds that they can do some restoration and maybe by 2012 we can see an improvement in the site, more improvement. Because they have done a great job with the funds that they have had and there is still more work to do and I’m hoping that the funds that they can get in for being a historical site will draw them closer to their goals for restoring this site.

	W:	Well, on behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program I would like to thank you for taking this time to speak with me. Learned a lot about the history of Jerkins and about your own life. I would like to close the interview by asking the person I spoke with to make their own personal reflections, whether it’s the interview or the activity or the event, whatever you’d like and when you conclude those comments that would be the end of the interview.

	H:	Yes, and I didn’t say a whole lot earlier, but I’m going to conclude by saying that I have children, I have four children, and I mentioned that they have degrees, Michelle, and Janice and Lawrence and Janet. And we have nine grandchildren and we’re expecting a great-grand and we have four grandchildren that are in college now and one that has already graduated. Five, really, because Britney graduated this year that she’s attending. And we’re hoping that what we have experienced with them will help them to be better than what we are. They should





be able go beyond what we have gone. Because we did a lot with little because we did not have the kind of, the monies as people have now that can send their children to college and we have done so much with little. And I hope that with much they can do even greater than this. And this is what, when coming back together you reflect on how far you have come with the help of God, where you started and how far you have come. And when you look around at the many people who have left Florida and they have come back to us with so many experiences and so many things that they have done and it makes you real proud to know that this person is a product of Jerkins. A school that had to deal with books that were worn or used books or teachers with very innovative because they are creative, if you will, they came up with what we needed to survive. Because we had an excellent background in math, science, English, history, and those classes. And even we were able to take French. I took French here and then Mr. Bailey, the band teacher, instead of going to chorus that year I went to French. And I thought about how well we did in junior college, the teachers knew us and we had very good backgrounds, and I was just thinking about, look, we didn’t have the books, the new edition of the book, but look what they did to get us where we needed to be. We were proud of our teachers and the education that we received because we excelled when we went to junior college. I mean, very well, the students from that period that’s all we could hear because we had done so well. And we have God first of all to thank, and the teachers who taught without new textbooks. And sometimes we didn’t have books to take home because there was probably just the classroom set, but we





learned and we learned well. And that makes be proud, because when I look up on the wall of the teachers, some of them are gone but they would always be etched in my memory, because of what they gave to us. All of the knowledge that they imparted to us. And it makes me feel good and I tell my children what they did with the little that they had and look how much they achieved. So that means that you are supposed to do much better because you have much, and what are you going to do with your much. So that’s what I’ve gotten from this, and just has been fun listening to people talk and fun just thinking about what it was like when we were in school. And I think that our children, see the thing that I’m looking at now, we see a lot of boys that walk around with their pants down, there’s no such thing when we were in school. You had pride, your belt at your waist, not below, your waist. And there are some students even though they did not go to Jerkins but their parents made sure that they did not wear drop pants. And there are some young men that don’t wear drop pants to this day because their fathers would not allow it, or if they grew up in a home with a single mother, their mother would not allow it. So it’s a lot of things that we have lost as a result of integration. But then, I’m proud to know that I heard that 51 percent of the population is male at Edward Waters College so that lets me know that everybody’s not on the street, everybody’s not dropping their pants below their waist. So there are still some males who have been impacted by their upbringing of their parents and it’s passed on to their grandchildren. So that is really something to be proud of, and to thank God most of all.

[End of interview]











Transcribed by: Richard Brust, September 1, 2015 Audited by: Cristina Rodriguez; October 9, 2017 Final edit by: