AAHP 458; Michaux; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 458 Mickey Michaux African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by A.J. Donaldson on October 15, 2016 58 minutes | 27 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 458

Interviewee: Mickey Michaux Interviewer: A.J. Donaldson Date: October 15, 2016



	D:	Today’s date is October the 15th, my name is A.J. Donaldson, graduate student at the University of Florida working on a PhD on Black Power in North Carolina. I am sitting here with Representative Michaux, just—all right, I just want to ask my first question which was: what got you interested in politics, especially in North Carolina?

	M:	I got interested in politics through a very good friend of mine named Martin Luther King Jr.

	D:	Oh okay!



	M:	I brought Martin to Durham, North Carolina in 1956—October of 1956. I had a conversation with, well I knew his brother before then but I got ahold of him— Louis Austin, Louis Austin was editor of the Carolina Times. I was heading a trade week program, which was a Black Chamber of Commerce thing, that year and I had to get a final program, rally program, going. I went to Louis I said: “Well what if we invite”—and this was right at the end of the, near the end, of the Montgomery Bus Boycott situation—so I said “Louis, what if we invite Martin

Luther King Jr. to Durham as the rally speaker.” He said “That’s a good idea.” We got on the phone at that point and call Dexter Avenue Baptist Church, got ahold of a lady who is the mother of a friend of mine who is Martin’s secretary. Ms.

Proctor said: “Well he’s not in right now I’ll have him call you back as soon as he gets in.” I guess about maybe fifteen or twenty minutes later he called back, and we told him what the situation was, he said “I always wanted to come to Durham.” I said “well Martin I knew you brother when he was at Palmer, you





know Doc Brown had to call for your daddy to come get your brother. He said “I understand that.” Anyway, Martin came here in October of 1956. He stayed at the house with my parents, we fed him and whatnot, that’s when we got to be good friends. Every time he was in North Carolina he stayed with us. In fact, my brother went to Boston University probably as a result of Martin being in the house. But anyway, along about 19—I had started law school, about 1963, somewhere in that neighborhood, we were talking and he said “You know Mickey, we’re looking for economic power, we’re looking for social power, we’re looking for political power. The only way you’re going to get to do any of these things is that you’re gonna to have to have some political power. You’re gunna have to be sitting in the halls where decisions are made and all of the people come in and”—I said “Martin you’re right!” and we went on talking. He said “You know, you’d be a good politician.” I said “You’re out of your ever-loving mind.” But that was really the start of it and we talked, you know things just occurred, like I said every time he was in North Carolina he stayed at the house. So in 1964, my senior year—my last year—in law school, I was a four-year law school student because I worked full time. My classmate was Maynard Jackson—

	D:	Oh! Maynard Jackson the Mayor of Atlanta?



	M:	Atlanta, yeah. So anyway, Maynard—here again I was in charge of another program, the Law Day program et cetera in law school and this is another thing cause this has to do with Bobby Kennedy and the Kennedys. Anyway, Maynard and I got to be good friends and so I said “Maynard you know all these talks I’ve had with Martin, he always said—I think I’m gonna try something.” This was our





class that was graduating that year. So in [19]64 I filed to run for North Carolina State House.

	D:	[Laughter] Okay, 1964 M:	1964

	D:	Which month, do you remember? M:	It was in probably—

	D:	I think it was Nov—probably October, okay I’m with you 1964



	M:	No but this was probably—I didn’t have but one class that semester and the primary I think was in May or something like that—

	D:	Oh that’s right I’m with you, I’m with you



	M:	So I probably filed in February or somewhere like that, but anyway. I went and filed and folks started coming around, and Maynard got involved in it. Just a lot of folks came up—anyway—I got in the primary that year, lost it by one hundred and twenty votes, but the bug sort of bit me by that time. I ran again in ’66, and this was—the Civil Rights Act was passed in ’64 and signed in ’64, I didn’t make it to the signing ceremony because I was studying for the BAR exam. Civil Rights Act of ’65 passed, the Voting Rights Act passed in ’65, I didn’t make that signing either because I was still studying for the BAR exam, but in ’65…I filed again…no it was ’66. It was ’64 and ’66, oh in ’65 I didn’t make it to the signing of the Voting Rights Act—all these times Martin was on my case about coming to all of those things. But anyway, I filed again in ’66, ran, and by that time they were beginning to change the rules in North Carolina. It used to be it was an open seat and you ran at large, not in districts, so in ’64 and ’66 I ran at large, came close again,





didn’t quite make it. In the mean time I got involved because I was catching hell from the State BAR Association because of my activities in the Civil Rights. They had a quota on Black folks who passed the BAR during that period of time, no more than two or three Blacks passed the BAR exam.

	D:	And not only were you a part of a quota, but you were involved in the Civil Rights Movement and they’re telling you—

	M:	Yeah, yeah, well I mean the first year I took the BAR exam which was ’64 I didn’t even know I was gonna be allowed to take it. I got called in to the executive secretary of the board law examiner’s office the Saturday before the BAR exam was being given and told they were going to allow me to take it. Didn’t pass it, figured something was up. ’66 same thing happened, but they got a little bit more lenient. I’m sorry—’64 I took it in ’64, I passed it in ’66 so…I thought I took that thing three times? But I passed it in ’66 and the only two Blacks who passed the BAR exam in ’66 were my brother and me.

	D:	Hold on, wait a minute. [Laughter] In the state or North Carolina, the only two Blacks were you and your brother?

	M:	Mhm, in that year 1966. Like I said before, they only allowed two to three a year—

	D:	Yeah—



	M:	Yeah, and we were the only two who passed it in 1966. D:	Wow, okay.

	M:	Yeah that was fifty years ago this year. Practicing law for fifty years, anyway, so finally got that and soon my relationship with Martin was—in ’68 I filed to run for





the State House again. This time though, actually it was still an at-large situation but you had to run for a seat because of what was happening with Black folks during that period of time, folks tried to change the rules. Instead of running at large you ran for a seat but it was an at-large seat. We had two seats, anyway that was the year that Martin got killed—’68. Now, Martin was supposed to have been in Durham we were supposed to be on the campaign trail here. That year Reggie Hawkins, who’s a Black dentist out of Charlotte was running for governor. Martin was gonna pick him up in Charlotte, do Greensboro and Winston-Salem, come to Durham and eat—he loved my mother’s cooking—we would eat and then we were going east. I was running for State House then at that time. Martin called me and said “Mickey I can’t make it I’ve got to go back to Memphis we’ve got problems there, call the office and let’s see if we can find a date that we can come because I want to do this thing with you and Reggie and catch all these places in between.” Well of course you know what happened at that point. That’s when the fire went out of my belly, I gave it up after that I said “I’ll not do it anymore.” I had been working, at that point, as an assistant prosecutor in the Durham County Court system and this happened starting in about ’68, they changed over anyway. In ’72 folks came to me, we picked up an extra seat in the General Assembly as a result of the 1970 census reapportionment. We picked up an extra seat in Durham County, we were totally at large still at that point and finally folks came to me and said “Well, we know you’re a little bit better blah blah blah blah blah, why don’t you try for this third seat that we picked up?” I said “Well, I’m not too hyped up on it because, like I said, the things that had





happened in the end with Martin and what not.” I got convinced that maybe I should try it again. Henry Frye had been elected in ’68 and George Johnson had been elected in 1970 from Robeson County and—this is ’72—I’m running and I get elected in ’72. So we were the first three in the twentieth century to get elected to the North Carolina House. And that was it! That was how things got started.

	D:	So that’s how it all got started? M:	Yeah.

D:  Now, this is an interesting gap, right? So between 1968, you’re just like “I’m done.” Right? And then in ’72 you get the seat. So let’s talk about those four years in between, what does life look like for you there?

	M:	I was practicing law, I had come on as the Chief Assistant District Attorney for Durham County. I was prosecuting cases downtown, I was still working in the businesses that my father had and was getting—I had never intended to practice law anyway, I was just going to use it in the business and what not but, somebody convinced me that I need to at least get some court room experience and of course when I got in the court room BOOM I had a new life all together.

So I didn’t worry about politics anymore during that period of time. Martin was gone, any impetus I had for doing anything in the Civil Rights Movement—well I mean we did a few things. Like in Durham we had a lot of working with people in public housing and what not. All of this transpired during that four year hiatus. But I wasn’t really—politics went out of the picture totally and completely until folks





came—when I picked up that third seat—folks came back to me and convinced me that this may be the time and it was.

	D:	Sure, sure, and did you ever come across a Floyd McKissick?



	M:	Lord yes, well what you have to understand, Floyd McKissick Sr. please. Floyd, when I first decided in ’64 to run some of the powers that be in Durham didn’t want me to run. I’m feisty and what not and you know I’m saying “I don’t give a damn what you think, I’m gonna run.” I knew Floyd at that time, Floyd had been my CORE President and all of that and Floyd had gotten me to go to Mississippi with him for James Meredith and we got down to Mississippi—we got to Memphis and drove over the Mississippi state line and we said, this was at night time, we gonna march for a couple of hours tonight and then there were places for us to rest. I’m marching down the highway in Mississippi and shotgun blasts come out of the woods. I looked at Floyd I said “Floyd, get me back to Memphis, I’m gonna get on a plane—I ain’t never coming back to Mississippi,” scared the daylights out of me. I ain’t been back to Mississippi since but anyway, I went and told Floyd what the higher-ups here, the leaders here were saying. He went and told them he said “You all gonna support him whether you want to do it or not.” And they did and Floyd and I formed a real close bond at that point.

	D:	So y’all drove from here down to Memphis and then to Mississippi?



	M:	No we flew, we flew to Memphis and then drove over—it’s not that far over to the Mississippi line.

	D:	So y’all were really good friends?





	M:	Yeah! Oh yeah! My brother and I had a program going sometime during that period of time that we had made contact with several Black artists, a fellow named Johnny Nash, I don’t know whether you’ve ever heard of him.

	D:	Yeah! I’ve heard of Johnny Nash [Laughter]



	M:	Well Johnny Nash got to be a close friend of ours and we put on a program for Black colleges called “Help You Help Yourself” and I’ve got a picture somewhere and I’m there with Johnny Nash and Floyd going around—the program was geared toward going around the Black colleges with varied Black artists to help to get them involved in Civil Rights activities and you know good feelings like that because the feeling was beginning to come back. But yeah Floyd and I were real tight.

	D:	Yeah, it’s interesting because I noticed from my research, and you can tell me more about it, Floyd starts to go from CORE to a more maybe Black Power like soul city type—

	M:	It was Stokely, it was Stokely involved in all that—yeah but Floyd still had a business since in mind.

D:  Oh he had a business mind M:  He wanted to build that city. D:  How did that go?

	M:	It went very well until Jesse Helms got to be senator and then it just began to peter out.

	D:	Do you think your relationship with Floyd McKissick was stronger as you became a representative or was it stronger before?





	M:	No it was stronger before—well no it came basically after I won that election. It got stronger after I won that election because that was when we would do things, he had been the chairman of CORE but then when he got out of that he came back and started working on the Soul City project and my having been elected— there was some state things that we could look into for him in terms of Soul City but the majority of what he was trying to get set up was with folks in Washington at HUD and Department of Transportation and folks like that for developing the whole project and more of his emphasis was in Washington trying to get it done until—and he made progress. He got the water system set in up there and a few other things, he got parks, a couple of playgrounds. He built his own home up there in Soul City and then, of course, by the time Jesse Helms got involved— and the thing is that’s one of the reasons Floyd was a republican trying to work in—that’s when you had…I’m trying to think

	D:	Nixon was President



	M:	Nixon, yeah you had Nixon and then you had Bob Brown who was working with the Nixon administration as Nixon’s Colored boy. And Bob is a good friend of mine right today. But I’ll never forget when Bob retired from the Nixon administration we had this big celebration in Washington that had Sammy Davis Jr. and all of those folks there and Nixon showed up and nobody wanted to take a picture with Nixon [Laughter]

	D:	[Laughter] No one?



	M:	None of the Black folks did, not really. But he had Bob up there and Bob really looked out for Black folks in spite of what Nixon didn’t want to do.





	D:	So they were really just political with trying to help Black folks through the Nixon administration?

	M:	Yeah, and that’s what Bob was doing.



	D:	So when I’m looking at that Soul City situation the name keeps coming up –L.H. Fountain

	M:	[Laughter] L.H. Fountain was a congressman from that district and you’re really getting to me now. L.H. Fountain was a democrat.

	D:	Okay



	M:	Cause you had Republicans really running the show during that period of time so there wasn’t much that L.H. could do for Floyd other than what Bob could do for Floyd with Nixon. So L.H. was an old southern gentleman, wore white suits and you know all this type of thing.

	D:	The whole nine yards?



	M:	The whole nine yards, yeah. In 1982—now we’re getting into when we went through redistricting. Now remember I was U.S. Attorney between ’72 and ’82 I went from the State House to become a U.S. Attorney to running for congress in ’82. Fountain was the congressman from that district but with redistricting having taken place in ’80 the demographics changed to a greater extent that you had more Black folks involved in the demographics and Fountain didn’t see a way he could win so he quit.

	D:	He just gave it up?





	M:	He gave it up. That’s when I decided—well I had planned on doing it anyway, I knew my days as U.S. Attorney were numbered because of Jesse Helms and because of—who was president in ’82?

	D:	Reagan



	M:	Reagan, yeah it was Reagan. I knew my time was numbered so I decided I was gonna run for United States Congress in that new district that had been set up. Like I said the demographics showed that there was a good possibility of a Black winning there. And it happened! I won it! I won the primary and we probably would have won the general election had it not been for the rule that was in effect, the 50% plus one rule. I got 48% of the vote in that primary.

	D:	No no that’s interesting because—now this is what I really wanted to ask you— does Jesse Jackson play any role in you getting yourself together for the congress run in ’82?

	M:	Mhmm! Yeah! D:	Okay I want to—

	M:	This was the same time Jesse was running for president. Dan Blue and I were chair of Jesse’s committee during that time.

	D:	Oh really?



	M:	Yeah



	D:	For North Carolina?



	M:	Mhmm, yeah and the fact of the matter was in the 1984 when Jesse ran—in 1984 Jesse ran again and I was invited to speak to the Democratic Convention in San Francisco that year [Break in recording]





	D:	Andy Young was—



	M:	Andy was…Andy and a couple of other folks…. D:	Was he mayor yet?

	M:	No, no, Andy was in the Georgia legislature. Just crossed my mind. 50% plus one, what did they call that thing?

	D:	I should know, hold on, that’s the question for me not you. You have majority member you have, let’s see, and then you have the runoff elections

	M:	Runoff! Yeah, well no no it wasn’t the runoff. You had to have 50% plus one to get to the runoff

	D:	No, no, if you didn’t have—



	M:	If you didn’t have 50% plus one you had a runoff. Yeah that’s what it was, it was just runoff.

	D:	And was that Valentine?



	M:	Valentine, yeah, Valentine and Jim Ramsey. Now Jim Ramsey was my first speaker at North Carolina House, that was in ’73. Jim Ramsey, Tim Valentine, Sunny Uragen and me, we were the only four people in that race that year. I won the primary with 48% of the vote we had to have a runoff because I didn’t do that and Tim Valentine was the runoff—came in second place. That’s when the runoff got to be racial. He used to talk about me bussing people to the polls, the block vote, the b-l-o-c-k vote and that type of thing. That’s the way it went so we felt that if we had kept our base that I would have won that second primary but an anomaly occurred. More folks turned out for the second primary than turned out for the first. White folks coming out of the wood-work saying, we can’t have this





happen. But that was that situation. Come the general election, I had seventeen thousand write in votes in the general election.

	D:	Wow!



	M:	For that year, yeah. I couldn’t believe it. What they did, folks had pencils made up with my name on it so they could spell it when they wrote it in on the ballot.

	D:	Wow, they had it so they could know exactly how it was spelled? I didn’t know that. So this is interesting because races kind of become a big thing to use to prevent Black candidates from gaining power in North Carolina starting one, with the situation in ’82 and then Jesse Jackson, if you remember, the Jim Hunt, they used Jesse Jackson against Jim Hunt.

	M:	Against Jim Hunt, yeah



	D:	Yeah, were you around during that time as far as how they were trying to use that radical…

	M:	Yeah, yeah, oh yeah.



	D:	Did they ever try to use you as someone who was too radical against Jim Hunt? M:	No, no

	D:	Okay, so would you pretty much say that you maintained more of a moderate, less radical political style?

	M:	Yeah pretty much. See, in a way I had moderation in my bones but in a way I’ve got rebellion in my bones too. The way we used to describe when the three of us were in—let me see—Henry, George and me. We were the first three Blacks to be elected to the general assembly since reconstruction. We ran a game on folks. George was a preacher so he was a hellraiser. I was a rebel and Henry





was the conciliator Henry Frye was the conciliator. And that was the way we operated, you know at the time. We had White folks coming to us to help them get their bills passed because they saw that what we were doing was effective. Martin used to call in Selma for instance—in the Selma situation—Martin called said, Mickey you need to come to Selma learn some more lessons. I said, okay I’ll try to get there; you know it’s one of those things but I didn’t go on bloody Sunday. Martin called me and said, we’re going back on Tuesday and I don’t know what happened we’re trying to wait for this decision to come down from Federal Courts on that, why don’t you come down Tuesday? I said, Martin I’ll tell you something—y’all got your butts kicked by White folks on Sunday, you think I’m coming down there in that mess? [Laughter]

	D:	[Laughter]



	M:	I said, no way…somehow or another I have a reputation for hitting back at ya. Anyway, they went in on Tuesday and had the pray-in at the bridge and turned around and went back to Brown Chapel Church. Bernard Lee called me and said, Martin is still trying to get you down here. I said, okay. Two days later I go down, meet them outside of Montgomery; this is the night that all the stars were there: Belafonte, Sammy Davis Jr., Tony Bennett, Peter Paulin all these folks were there because folks had marched from Selma all the way up—there was a camp ground right outside of Montgomery and everybody was camped out that night.

Got there, we got into Montgomery and I got picked up and took me out there. And I marched with them from the next morning from there to the capital and that was my stint in Selma.





	D:	Wow, okay



	M:	But I was about to get my head whooped, and I looked to John and I said, John how you stand that? And lots of folks will tell you, that’s what’s wrong with John now, he got his head whooped in so bad. But no, when it came to violence, I am about the most nonviolent person until you get up in my face, and then I’m gonna get violent on you.

	D:	Yeah



	M:	But anyway, that’s about it.



	D:	No, no, that’s a good transition because in Durham and in Greensboro, not in just Selma, Mississippi, it’s a growing movement as well. It’s growing

	M:	Yeah but it wasn’t growing in the same vein in North Carolina. North Carolina was more of a progressive type situation than you had in other places. For instance, it didn’t take us long to break down barriers in Durham. I mean, boom, once we did the boycott, then we turned our attention to people who were living in public housing. That became the impetus for them. We took over city hall one night, talk about my friendship with Floyd McKissick, we had trained public housing workers how to speak for themselves and put most of the movement in public housing because public housing was a plantation run by Carvie Oldham in the city of Durham.

	D:	Carvie who?



	M:	Oldham, he was the old executive director of the housing authority in Durham but it was the idea that we give you a place to live and you ought to be thankful and anything we tell you to do you need to do.





	D:	Wow, you do, mhmm.



	M:	So we concentrated, at that point, on public housing tenants, this is where Howard Fuller got really involved in it. So anyway,

	D:	Oh yeah, yeah. And you were helping with that public housing? Fighting against it?

	M:	Lord yeah, Howard Clemont and I almost got put in jail cause what we did was we told the public housing tenant, don’t pay rent, give it to us, and we would put it in trusts for them and we were violating the law to no extent. Yeah, oh yeah [Laughter]

	D:	[Laughter]



M:  But we had probably, I got put in jail playing—got arrested for playing tennis out on Forrest Hill’s tennis courts.

D:  As a Black person? M:  As a Black person. D:   Just playing tennis?

	M:	Just playing, yeah. Fella, Gail O’Reily used to play basketball down in central, he and I played tennis almost every day and we would have to go down to central and fix the courts at central—line ‘em, mark ‘em, wet ‘em down, roll ‘em down, you know what I mean?

	D:	Yeah, yeah!



	M:	One day Gail said, Mickey lets go out to Forrest Hills, I said you’re out of your mind Gail, he said, nah lets go see what’ll happen.

D:   Yeah





	M:	And we went out there and got arrested. John Wheeler came and got us out of jail before my daddy found out. And I had gone to jail when we sat down on Howard Johnson’s restaurant which was out on Chapel Hill Boulevard.

	D:	Oh wow, so what year was that when you were dealing with that tennis arrest?



	M:	[Interruption, background conversation of Michaux showing pictures of tennis arrest article]

	D:	Michaux has a brush with the Justice Department?[looking at newspaper article] M:	I don’t know what they were talking about in that one.

	D:	Wow, you’ve been arrested quite a bit, a couple times. M:	A couple times.

	D:	[laughter] I didn’t know that actually [laughter]. Did you represent yourself? M:	Andre Vann found all this stuff. No, I wasn’t a lawyer when this happened.

	M:	This was sit-in on Howard Johnson’s place but there’s another one…I don’t know where it is…where I had a problem downtown going to play tennis.

	D:	So you dealt with cops and you dealt with housing and you saw these things coming around you, what about your response as a politician to these things? Because a lot of people look at the one-on-one confrontations and you were in a position where you were able to look at it from a larger point of view.

	M:	There were two things that happened politically, one was sickle cell anemia. The three of us, Joey, Henry, and I, put together a sickle cell program in this state which got passed and was a model for sickle cell programs throughout the country. Now we were castigated by some Black folks, particularly a couple of





doctors, because we were telling insurance companies that they couldn’t discriminate against folks with the sickle cell trait

	D:	This sounds so familiar, this sounds like the Obama plan. M:	Huh?

	D:	This sounds like health care, the Obama plan, how Obama helped all the—



	M:	We told insurance companies that if you gonna do business in North Carolina you cannot discriminate against people with the sickle cell trait. Not the disease, the trait.

	D:	Okay, is that the preexisting condition type of thing?



	M:	Yeah, yeah and I got cussed out by North Carolina Mutual. D:	Huh, ahh okay. [Laughter]

	M:	[Laughter] What happened was North Carolina Mutual jumped my case on that. I got the bill passed. Nobody had called North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company. White folks insurance company didn’t have no problem. We didn’t say anything to North Carolina Mutual which was probably our mistake. But since everybody thought it was—North Carolina Mutual being a Black insurance company they wouldn’t have any problem insuring Black folks with, well you know

	D:	Sure! Yeah!



	M:	Man they hit the roof. I went to them I said, alright we didn’t you an opportunity to be heard, fine. I went back to the General Assembly, had the bill withdrawn—it had passed the senate—sent back to the house, had the vote on the house side





ended and brought the bill back before the house again and invited North Carolina Mutual to come in and speak on it.

	D:	Unbelievable!



	M:	They came in and spoke against the bill, we passed the bill out of the house again. It went the senate and the senate passed it like 48-1 or 47-1 or something like that.

	D:	Yeah, unanimous



	M:	Almost unanimous, it had but one vote against it and the guy who voted against it changed his vote, made it unanimous. Now that was one thing. The other situation was we were one of the first states to provide automatic restoration of citizenship for felons. That was a bill we passed in ’73. So here again we set up the most progressive Black economic development program in the country, during that period of time. By that time we were beginning to get more and more members into the General Assembly. We had one of the most effective Black economic development programs in the country. As a result of that, you still got remnants of the Institute for the Minority Economic Development, which still exists in Durham today as a result of that. You’ve got Black credit union help which still exists today as a result of all that coming out.

[Break in recording]



	D:	Alright second to last question, when I look at some research also I see a situation in North Carolina you see, let’s say for instance Jeanie Lucas, I’m trying to get an idea of how Black women were being represented, in a way, and how you were able to maybe sometimes work with Jeanie Lucas to see—





M:  I worked with Jeanie…I’ve had two opportunities to get promoted from the house the senate. I turned them both down. The first one was when Ralph Hunt went to the senate, and then when Ralph got out Jeanie…

	D:	Okay



	M:	And we were looking for a Black woman to take his place at that time and there were a couple of names, called out Marianne Black and Jeanie and one or two others. So they set on Jeanie to do that and she came in, did an excellent job, particularly on education committees and she was on Education Appropriations in the senate. She did great work and she was on Education and Appropriations in the senate at the same time I was Senior Chair of the Appropriations Committee in the house. So we worked real close together.

	D:	Okay yeah I just saw her and saw how long she served and wasn’t sure if it was the same amount of time or maybe a little after you.

	M:	No she came and she was there like I said when I was Senior Chair of Appropriations which was ’07-’08 I was Senior Chair for two terms.

	D:	Okay, alright.



	M:	Yeah but she was there and we worked very well together.



	D:	I guess one of my last questions—looking back on your experience and looking at how you’ve come of age, and I say that from an Anne Moody point of view, how do you reflect on your greatest moments or accomplishments as far as what you see your legacy being?

	M:	You know I’ve thought a little bit about that. I guess, AJ, I could’ve been out here making a whole lot of money practicing law, I’m a pretty decent lawyer. But I





guess what I got from Martin, what I went though, and what I’ve seen people go through gives you a sense of wanting to make some type of contribution that’s lasting and you don’t want to leave what you liked to do behind without having left something behind. I guess that’s why I got so pissed off with, in 2013 when all the stuff that we did on voting rights in this state, to just see it go out the window. To see the things that you sort of struggle for—you know when you walk into Mississippi trying to get a Black guy into University of Mississippi and then he turns out to be Jesse Helm’s [inaudible] the things that go bad you want to try to wipe out. The things that go good you want to hang on and leave sort of as a legacy to some degree. I don’t know, it’s something that I haven’t really formed in my mind yet.

	D:	Bonus one, may I add. I’ve looked at North Carolina from Florida and it’s been very interesting. I have worked at this General Assembly with you, I was working with Senator Dannelly, and I was just thinking at the time the worst thing we had to worry about in the senate was Senator Webster you know [Laughter] his long talks, but now I would’ve never thought that these same guys would have the power that they do—not Senator Webster—but you get where I’m going, how is that—from a perceptional point of view—we are now at a point where North Carolina is the center of attention for regressive politics. Right?

	M:	Yeah, yeah. That’s why I said in my mind right now I don’t know where I am in terms of the question you raised. Simply because I tell folks today, we have morphed from the 19th century to the 21st century, having skipped all of the 20th century.





	D:	Break that down for me.



	M:	Well what you had happen in the 19th century led to the progress that was made in the 20th century, but now in the 21st century you’re trying to go back.

	D:	Hmmm, just wanna go all the way back.



	M:	Yeah, I mean you’re trying to use the same tactics to keep people—for instance—from voting. You ought to be encouraging folks to vote, which is what the legislation that we passed did, encouraged folks to vote. Obama won North Carolina in 2008, boom just like that. 2012 it was real close. But then, as I tell Republicans, we taught you all how to win elections. The thing we didn’t teach you was how to govern. You give us another 140 years and we’ll teach you how to do that too. I mean that’s it. Once they got the power, then they got the retrogression program going. When we did redistricting, to show you how folks think, in the 2010 redistricting—the Republicans did it—they gerrymandered things all over the place. Their excuse was, the justice department has approved everything that we did. I said, you’re absolutely right they approved it. The only reason approved it was you didn’t have any retrogression in the redistricting that you did. It was true! We picked up more districts, we got more Black folks in the General Assembly now than we ever had before. I said, but you didn’t have any retrogression, that’s why they approved what you did. If you had one ounce of retrogression shown in that, they would not have approved those districts. They will tell you—the Justice Department that’s….yeah. The other thing is that, I’m glad that you’re in history because we don’t learn our history.

	D:	Not at all.





	M:	We don’t learn our history. And I told, I got up on the floor one day and I said lemme tell you Republicans something, I said you think we ought to be grateful to you because of what Abraham Lincoln did, two things to remember. Number one, Abraham Lincoln didn’t free the slaves cause he loved them, he freed the slaves to keep the country together.

	D:	That is correct.



	M:	I said that is the same reason Lyndon Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act, was to keep the country together. The second thing you’ve got to understand is, that during Reconstruction in 1876 when you had a presidential election, you had Samuel J. Tilden, the governor of New York running for president, and you had Rutherford B. Hayes the republican candidate for president. There came a snag in electoral votes between Florida, was one of the states, Oklahoma was another one, and there was a third southern state involved in that. You Republicans came to the Black leadership and said, if you will let us put our man in the White House, we will withdraw the troops from the South.

	D:	Yep, yep. That’s exactly what happened. Yeah.



M:  Turned us over to the anti-Black Democratic Party. You walked off and left us laying on the ground without any help at all so that you could get Rutherford B Hayes to be president of the United States.

D:   Wow, some times we’re living in.



	M:	But you see it happening—the problem is it’s coming right back only the shoe is on the other foot now.





	D:	Sure, sure, sure.



	M:	You’ve got the Republicans now who are the “bad guys” rather than the Democrats. Because over the years it has morphed, and that’s why I say you morphed from the 19th to the 21st Century which means you’ve completely obliterated the progress that was made in the 20th century. I told folks the other day I said, you know you talkin’ about HBCUs, y’all didn’t go to these HBCUs so that Black folks could get an education, you just wanted to keep them out of White schools. That’s why HBCUs are in the condition that they’re in right now.

	D:	Didn’t want them in the first place.



	M:	Didn’t want them in the first place but to keep you out of the White schools, we built all these Colored schools.

	D:	Then they got our talents in the White schools and they were like, we don’t need no HBCUs anymore—

	M:	There you go.



	D:	Wow!



	M:	Yeah



	D:	[Laughter] Well, is there anything else you want to add? M:	[Laughter] No

	D:	No, no, I ought to tell you I have always enjoyed listening to you talk. That poem, lets end with your poem, do you still remember it?

	M:	Which one? I have to read one I wrote myself? I did that the other day at a place I got honored and I’ve had more requests for that…yeah I still—





	D:	You wanna end with that one? Can we end with that one? That’s my favorite one [laughter]

	M:	Alright, I’ve really got two. D:	Oh you’ve got two?

	M:	Yeah I got two.



	D:	Okay, I’ll let you pick which one you want.



	M:	The other one is Alfange, Dean Alfange. Have you ever heard of him? D:	No!

	M:	What I call the American creed, I seek opportunity, not security. I do not wish to be a kept citizen, humbled and dulled by having the state look after me. I want to take the calculated risk to dream and to build to fail and to succeed. I will never cower before any master nor bend to any threat. It is my heritage to stand erect, proud, unafraid to think and act for myself and to face the world boldly and say “This I have done.”

	D:	Wow, that deserves a clap [clapping]



	M:	One more, take the great theologian Martin Luther. What do you know about him? Nothing.

	D:	Okay, no, you’ve gotta educate me on that one.



	M:	Martin Luther had a thing against the holy church in Rome, back in the 17th century. He wrote these treatises that were blasphemous to the holy catholic church of Rome. So there was a death warrant put out on Martin Luther because he had posted these things on church doors all over European countries. One day what they called the Diet of Worms, we’re talking about Worms, Germany.





The Diet was a conference, they called on Martin Luther whether or not—since they had a death warrant out on him—whether or not they were gonna lift that if he recanted. They met for a couple of days and Martin Luther was there and they asked him in the final analysis, will you recant all of these treatises that you were putting out against the holy Roman Catholic Church? He said, let me think about it, came back two days later he said, I neither can nor will recant anything what is not right or safe to act against conscience.

	D:	He wasn’t gonna change his mind [Laughter]



	M:	When the Republicans took over in the General Assembly, four years ago, the first thing they went to democratic leader—who was Joe Hackney at the time, we had been speaking—You shut Mickey Michaux up, and we’ll get along fine, we’ll do everything all right.

	D:	Wow, that was their request? M:	Yeah

	D:	So Basnight’s not in power no more? M:	Oh lord no!

	D:	I missed that, I missed that era…Tony—



M:  Tony…no…the Republicans had taken over totally and completely. It’s a super majority by the Republicans in both houses. When they came up and when Joe came and told me that.

D:   They said you? If they could shut you up



M:  Shut me up, yeah. I went on the floor and I repeated those last words I just told you.





	D:	Well it hasn’t worked, they haven’t shut you up. [Laughter]



	M:	Not yet [Laughter], not yet. No it’s a little bit too late to do that.



	D:	Oh wow, well I’d like to set up a follow up interview, whenever, you know just to kinda continue to build on this and I will get you the printed material of everything that we did today and I will keep you posted.

	M:	Okay



	D:	All right thank you, representative. M:	My pleasure, my pleasure.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jacob House, January 23, 2017 Audit-edited by:	A.J. Donaldson, April 3, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 27, 2019