AAHP 155; Robinson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 155 Verdell Robinson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on January 31, 2010 1 hour, 19 minutes | 39 pages



Abstract: Verdell Robinson was part of conducting an oral history collection on Ogden Elementary School, a Black school in Bland, Florida; the project is catalogued at SPOHP as OSP. She talks about those interviews, and about the school and her own experiences going there—including pageants and musical events. Ms. Robinson was born and raised in Bland, and she describes some of her family history going back multiple generations, including some of the settlement of Bland. She discusses the chores she was responsible for growing up, and the family dynamics in her household. She also talks about picking tobacco when she was a child, and about some of the local businesses she remembers going to during the Jim Crow era.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Ogden Elementary School; Segregation]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 155

Interviewee: Verdell Robinson and Jessie Robinson Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: January 31, 2010



	W:	The whole kit and caboodle. R:	This, this is—

	W:	How many people would you say is in that picture? R:	This is the children and the grandchildren.

	W:	One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven— R:	And down here are the great-grands and the great-great-grands. W:	So, over thirty?

	R:	Yeah.



	W:	Everybody’s in there.



	R:	Yeah, most of us are in there. W:	Mmhm.

	R:	Yeah.



	W:	And she’s a beautiful lady.



	R:	Yeah, and that was in January, last year [20]09, and she died six months ago here in her sleep. No; it wasn’t in her sleep, Daddy died in his sleep. But she was living alone, so she called my sister about five o’clock, quarter ‘til or something, and said, “Come here. I need you.”

	W:	When did your dad pass? R:	[19]70.

	W:	1970. So, it was forty years?



	R:	Forty years, it should be. She remarried, Momma had her husband in [19]76, she married this guy . And he died in 2004, I think it was. Yeah.





	W:	Well, they’re treasures. You know, last night I was out in Archer at the Bo Diddley Originator Awards Banquet. And you know, we had some elders there, some people from St. Paul’s Church, and its just—it’s amazing when you think about the richness of the community

	R:	St. Paul. Yeah.



	W:	And people that nobody’s ever really talked to.



	R:	I know St. Paul and St. Peter, those churches. Where was it?



	W:	It was at the Archer Community School. So, where the elementary school was. It was real nice. You ought to come to the next one, because we’re going to keep doing it.

	R:	Okay, because I was talking to a friend this morning, Rebecca Sterling, and she said her husband went, which is Reverend Edward Sterling.

	W:	Okay. He must have been among the gathering; I didn’t get a chance to speak with him.

	R:	Yeah, pastors a church out in Rochelle.



	W:	Rochelle. Now, have you ever done an interview with us before? Maybe with Joel, or—

	R:	Well, who, Joel Buchanan? I tell you what: I have conducted interviews. Because we got a grant from the Florida—

	W:	Humanities Council? R:	Yes. Yes.

	W:	They do good work.





R:  We received a grant to do the oral history of Ogden Elementary School, which was in Bland when I was growing up. Well, I went through the fifth grade there. And Joel was our director, I guess. I think that’s what it was.

W:   Grant facilitator?



	R:	In the beginning, right. But then, Julian Pleasants took over, and we couldn’t have gotten a better person.

W:   He’s great. You know, I liked his bowties.



	R	Yeah! [Laughter] I know he retired from there, so is he still around?



	W:	We don’t see him as much; I think he’s moved to North Carolina. But we still correspond with him frequently. He was very much involved in the World War II project; you know, we’re putting a documentary film together that he was very involved with from the very beginning. And we try to make sure that everybody— you know, we’re pretty transparent in the oral history program. We want everyone to know what it is we’re doing, and we pass out a lot of video tapes, and we want people to about the program and to be excited about it. We’d like to put, you know, little mini cassettes in the hands of every little kid that there is, because all of the people love to speak to young people.

	R:	You’re right. We have them there at the oral history building. There are tapes that we did—oral, they’re not video, they’re CD.

	W:	This is in Bland?



	R:	We did them at houses. What, we interviewed eight students, I think it was, and two teachers.

	W:	Where are the tapes housed? Where’s the repository for them right now?





	R:	They’re there. They’re at your place.



	W:	Oh, they are in our collection? Okay, so that means they’re going to be digitized, and they’re going to be with the UF Libraries, because they’re taking our whole collection and digitizing it, and putting it online.

	R:	Is that what they’re doing?



	W:	Mmhm, they’re doing that right now. R:	Oh, okay.

	W:	So I’ll have to go back and find it. It was the project called the Ogden Project? R:	Yes.

	W:	Okay, I’ll look for those.



	R:	O-G-D, like Ogden, as in Utah.



	W:	I’m so tempted. Your cup says, “Don’t touch this mug!” But I don’t know; if I touch it, I’ll lose a finger or something? [Laughter] I guess I should be scared. You all have a beautiful home. So many pictures. Just from where I’m sitting, I see so many pictures of family, and awards. It’s so warm.

	JR:	Thank you!



	W:	Well, it’s interesting. I’ve been privileged to be admitted into people’s homes, and you can see the difference—not necessarily the home, I’m not talking about the quality or anything of anybody’s house, but the richness in whether there are pictures, awards, and keepsakes, and things like that. And some people have very few. And then, some people, from the time you walk in, you get a sense that you’ve known them, or that you want to know them because of the awards, and pictures, and cards, and—





	JR:	Right, right, right



	W:	And everything. I mean, you all have, you’ve got about every kind of holiday card there is on the mantle over there. About fifteen feet away! [Laughter] That mailbox must have been full! A lifetime. [Laughter]

	JR:	A lifetime! I guess so, a lifetime. [Laughter] Where do you live? W:	I live in High Springs. I’ve been there for the last ten years.

	JR:	Where about in High Springs?



	W:	Right on the main drag. Before you get in the town, right next to the community theatre, right in that little business district. You coming in on 27, and the road splits off 441; before you get to the light, I’m about three houses down.

	JR:	You know there was a church.



	W:	It used to be a church. Now, it’s the community theatre. Yeah, the lady who owned that church—

	R:	I directed this project, so that’s why—



	W:	Oh, so you have all of it. The lady who owned the church owned the house on the one side which was a parsonage, and the house that I live in, which is where the preacher and his family actually lived. They call it the McDonald house.

	R:	We had—this is the site; the school is gone.



	W:	Okay, so I’m looking at two pictures. One is the High Springs Herald, Thursday, July 5th, 2007, “Community gets Wishes: Markers Unveiled for Ogden Elementary.” And that’s you, with an umbrella. It was raining that day.

	R:	It was hot.



	W:	Well, it was hot. Okay.





	R:	That’s the one side of the marker. W:	And there’s Ms. Gussie Lee.

	R:	That’s my sister.



	W:	Okay. Now see, I’ve met her; I didn’t know who I was meeting at the time, but when she was the mayor of High Springs, because—

	R:	Alachua, she’s been the Alachua thing. She has a preschool there.



	W:	Okay. “Ogden Elementary School number forty-nine, built by Alachua School Board in the early 1900’s to educate African American children in the Bland community.” Okay, so now, where would I find this sign for the Bland community and the Ogden School, if I was to go look for it?

	R:	Highway 241, and County Road 278. You would take 241 north, go on by Mebane Middle School—that is 241 that you’re on when you pass Mebane Middle School.

	W:	Okay, is that 241?



	R:	Yeah. That’s 241. Continue to a four-way stop out there, and there’s a blinking light which is probably about six miles past Mebane Middle School. Then, continue two miles past that, and there’ll be a road intersecting, which is 278, and that sign is there. On 241, it’s left when you’re driving north. It’s a marker, it’s there.

	W:	Oh yeah, it says right here. Northwest 278 Avenue and County Road 241. R:	That’s it.

	W:	Reading is fundamental. [Laughter]





	R:	Fundamental! And you learn that, everything I want to know, I learn—. Now that, you can’t hardly make out, but that’s the only picture of the school.

	W:	Oh, really?



	R:	Yeah, you can see it in the background there behind those pitches. And the people that own the property now, where the school was, gave us—found that picture among her mother’s things.

	W:	Okay, what is that family’s name? R:	Emerson.

	W:	Are you aware of how the property came to them? I mean, if the school was on it, how did they end up—?

	R:	I don’t know. Because it should have been school board property, right? W:	Exactly.

	R:	I don’t know. I don’t know, that’s what we—. There’s a lot more digging to be done, because I don’t know how they got the property. I wasn’t around when the school was torn down. The only thing that’s still there is the pump—where the pump was. The well pump—the pump isn’t there itself, there’s like a tub or something over it, but the well is there. And they get water from that. They planting a garden up there.

	W:	Is this gentleman still living? R:	Mr. Welch? Yeah.

	W:	He would be fascinating to speak with. I’m sure you’ve interviewed him. R:	Yes. He was one of the teachers. Now, he was principal/teacher.

	W:	I’m sure you couldn’t have just one job.





R: Excuse us. [Break in interview]

R:   Now, here is that same picture that I just showed you, with a map there of where it is. I think it might be—but that’s the 241.

W:  What a treasure this is that you’ve preserved! I’m looking at a book, The Oral History of Ogden Elementary School Project Report and Ogden School Road Dedication; it has pictures, and mementos, and everything is neat and orderly.

R:  Well, you know it was required by the people we got the grant from—now, okay, I knew there was another one, that’s another map.

W:   These are all the people involved?



R:  Those are the—that’s the committee, and you see Dr. Pleasants there? W:  Oh, okay. And this is your brother who I’ve not met yet.

R:   That’s my brother.



W:  I keep trying, but now I can put a face with the name. R:  That’s it.

W:  So if I walk by him in the Hitchcock’s, I’ll know to say something. [Laughter] R:  He’ll say, “How do you know me?” And, that whole picture is the committee. W:   Okay, “historical committee members with consultant”—I guess that was Dr.

Pleasants.



R:  Those are the ones we interviewed. That’s Mr. Welch, that same guy; that was the teacher/principal. Ms. Simmons was a teacher.

W:   Ms. Randolph. Mr. Stroder.



R:   Everybody else were students that attended that school.





	W:	Well, this is marvelous. Here are some minutes from the school board on February 5th, 1907.

	R:	Those are the earliest records we have, of that school. W:	Wow. That’s very impressive.

	R:	Thank you.



	W:	So before I talk about you, I just want to ask you about the project. This project was completed, you got a grant and everything; what has happened since then? I mean, are children excited about it? Is the information getting out?

	R:	That’s a good question. It’s not getting out, I don’t think, in the schools. The person in the community is aware of it. And every year, this organization—and that’s one reason that we were able to go on and move kind of rapidly on it is because there is Bland community families in [inaudible 14:36]. There’s an organization that we started in 1977.

	W:	Okay. And is that the group that does the annual Thanksgiving reunion? R:	Annual Fourth of July.

	W:	Fourth of July, okay.



	R:	So, of course we talk about that at the reunion, and we have church on that Sunday, near. The church is just down the road from that intersection.

	W:	And what’s the name of the church?



R:  Greater New Hope. So, we see it. But you know, we don’t really just visit it and talk about it. And then the site where the school is, is about a mile west of that. Yeah, that picture that says that—that one.





	W:	Site of the Ogden Elementary School. I think we take it for granted today, because everybody’s got a school bus, or kids have cars. What was it like having to get up in the morning, do your chores, and then walk to school?

	R:	That was one of the questions.



	W:	All kind of weather. No matter what the weather was, right? And still—and walk home! Everything. [Laughter]

	R:	We lived about three, three and a half miles from the school. W:	So seven miles round trip every day to go to school. Every day. R:	And the White bus passed us. White folks was on the bus.

	W:	Where the kids on the bus—sometimes they would jeer or something? R:	Yeah, they’d yell out sometimes.

	W:	Get a bus!



	R:	It was like, that’s the way it is. And we didn’t—it was just the way it was.



	W:	And these are the same kids you played with, I’m sure. But they got to ride the bus, and you didn’t, but y’all would play games and see each other and everything. Everything was the same until it was time to go to school. All of a sudden, something magical happened because it was time to go to school. Well, how do you reflect on that?

	R:	Well, as far as back then, I didn’t think much about it. That’s just the way it was. Especially when I was young. This was through the fifth grade. And we always— a lot of my cousins lived on—were sharecroppers. We went to the different White people places. I think it was different with us because we were stationary the whole time when I was going to school. But what my daddy did do was plant





tobacco with some of the White families around there. And there one that he also planted corn and, you know, he just did a lot of farming on his property. But he didn’t have any small children. He was an old man. But his daughter had the store; there was one store there in Bland and it wasn’t far from the school.

	W:	What was the name of the store?



	R:	Miss Merdis’—the store was named after the lady. W:	M-U-R-T-I-S? Or M-I-R—?

	R:	I think it was M-E-R-. Was it D-I-S? Merdis. I’m saying “-dis,” it might’ve been “-tis.”

	W:	Was that her first name, or the family’s name? R:	That was the first name.

	W:	What was the family’s name? R:	Moffis.

	W:	Mof—that ain’t no simpler! [Laughter] Merdis Moffis.



	R:	Merdis Moffis, yep. His name was, that Daddy worked for, was Mine Moffis. M-I- N-E, I guess. We called him “Mr. Mine.” He was Mr. mine. But now, it was Mr.

Bish that we— [Break in interview]

	R:	But the thing about it is, I think we got just as good an education as those that were riding by us going to Alachua, to the segregated schools. And, well, we did. We got the basics. We got the basics. I was thinking about the books, and well, what you hear all the time, I’m sure. You got handed-down and the used books





that they had used. And some of them were in good condition. Others were torn, tattered.

	W:	Do you feel you get a little bit more, though? R:	More than an education?

	W:	Yes. I went with my mother to her 46th class reunion this summer, and that’s what actually started Armstrong High School in Eastover, North Carolina. We came back and we started Lincoln High School series, and now we’re on Mebane, and we went to Jerkins High School in Perry. And what I hear from everyone is that the difference—that there was actually something lost with integration, because before then, the teachers personally cared. You know, it wasn’t just a school. The parents, the grandparents, when they couldn’t read, would come to the school in the evening and use the school as a community center for literacy. People didn’t go without clothes, there was love, there was discipline; all the neighbors— everybody knew every child’s name, everybody graduated, had a trade, went to the Service.

	R:	Now you hearing it from me, too. W:	Is that the same thing?

	R:	Very same thing. Very same thing. And then, the end of the year, we had a play—you know, a school play. And all the parents came. Everybody in the community came. And I remember, I think it probably was the last one, the teacher was from High Springs, and her sister, Ms. Woods, was the teacher. And Ms. Katie Mae Black was her sister-in-law. And she brought her piano—naturally, we didn’t have a piano. She brought her piano to the school—





	W:	Now, how’d she bring it? R:	I don’t know!

	W:	Please tell me it was on buttboard! [Laughter] That’d be great!



	R:	I don’t know what they all did, now. And as I said, I was young, so I don’t know. I just know the piano was there, and Ms. Katie Mae was there, and we practiced, and everybody came out. And it was that two-room school, there. And we went first through sixth. And I remember the songs—at least one song.

	W:	Well, what were the songs?



	R:	It was about fairies. It was like a fairytale—a fairytale, but there were actually fairies. And deep in the forest. [Singing] “Deep in the forest / Dancing in the dell, playing with [humming] / Rain in fairy vales.” I think it was close to—. [Singing] “Chasing the moon beams / If they chance to stray / Flying when the sun shine bright / Oh, it’s fra-la-la.”—or, “tra-la-la.” “Tra-la-la-la.” Think it was “Fra-la.” “Fra- la-la-la / La-la-la / A merry band of elves are we / ‘Neath the forest stream.” That was about it. “All is fra-la”— that was it.

	W:	That’s beautiful! And so, you all were always singing that together? Or did you have a solo part?

	R:	Together. Mm-mm, I didn’t have a solo part. No one had a solo part. But, there were speaking voices; a lot of speaking parts.

	W:	Kind of like Rex Harrison used to do in My Fair Lady, he would kind of sing it, say it, together.

	R:	Yeah.





	W:	That’s wonderful that all these years later, you still remember your lines. Must have been a wonderful sense of community to be a part of that. Well, let’s get some particulars. We’ve been a little bit—you know, for people listening, they won’t even know who I’m speaking with. [Laughter] So, I’m speaking with Verdell Robinson in her home in Gainesville. Thank you very much for having me here. This is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, and this is December 31st, 2010. The last day of the year. So much to look forward to in the future. What is your date of birth?

	R:	One, twenty-three, 1939 W:	And where were you born?

	R:	Born in Bland, Florida. It’s north Alachua County.



	W:	Now, was there an attending physician? Were you born in a hospital? Was a midwife present? Do you know anything about that?

	R:	I know I wasn’t born in a hospital. Well, I don’t know. I think Momma always had this doctor from High Springs named Dr. Weeks. Except for one child; my younger sister had a midwife named Callie. And that Callie lived right across the field from us. And I think that’s—I don’t know if she was early, or why the doctor wasn’t there. But I think—I do believe—. Now, my older sister, Momma went to her momma’s, back to her mother’s house, and that’s where she was born. And the one next to her was born at Grandma’ house where they were living, Daddy’s momma. And I don’t know whether—you know, I don’t know that. But I think it was Dr. Weeks. The only midwife, and time I heard them talk about a midwife, was Aunt Callie, with my sister that was born in [19]41.





	W:	How many brothers and sisters do you have, and what are their names?



	R:	I have three sisters. One is deceased. The oldest one is Gussie Mae Washington Lee. Second one is Evelyn Washington, and she married a Washington.

	W:	Evelyn Washington Washington.



	R:	Mmhm. And the third one, Verdell Washington Robinson. And the fourth—you know, and I need to back up probably. And I say that because my sister, the fourth one, is the youngest girl, and she deceased in [19]84 from breast cancer.

	W:	What was her name? I’m very sorry for your loss.



	R:	Her name was Josie Lee Jones, her married name was Jones. And actually, the first child that my parents had was a girl, and a stillborn. And her name was Pearly Mae. So Gussie Mae was not the first, she was the second, but we always think of her as the first one; I do, because Pearly Mae has never been around.

She was born dead. So those are the—so, I did have four sisters, because there were five girls. And then, there were also five boys. Gus Washington is the oldest boy. The second one is Lamaris Washington, he didn’t have a middle name. The third one lived three days; that was Roscoe. And I don’t know what he died of, but that’s the first death I remember, is his. He was born in [19]45, but I remember that, because was born in [19]39, so I remember that. So, I was six when Roscoe died. And then, Thomas. Thomas Daniel. He lives in Jacksonville. And Ronnie Anthony, he lives near Memphis, Tennessee. He’s at home now, he and his son. Ronnie is almost twelve years younger than Thomas Daniel, and that’s the only one that was born in the hospital. And Momma said she was afraid. And her mother had died. See, when all the rest of us were born,





Grandma was still living. So, she mentioned the fact that Grandma wasn’t going to be around, she was afraid. And plus, as I said, it’d been so long. But she was thirty-nine; still young.

W:   What hospital was he born in?



R:  Alachua General, that was the only hospital. Was that the only hospital? Yeah, because Shands must have opened in [19]58. And that’s the year Ronnie was born.

	W:	What was she afraid of? R:	I don’t know.

	W:	Not having her mother? Not being at home?



	R:	She had all of us. I always ask her, because Momma was having babies every year. The one that died was born in [19]34, her first child. Then Gussie Mae, [19]36; Evelyn, [19]37; she missed [19]38; me, [19]39, but it was January. [Laughter] So. My brother, [19]40; my sister that died, [19]41; my brother in Birmingham, Lamaris, [19]42; then, he was three when Roscoe was born in [19]45.

	W:	So, a little break? [Laughter]



	R:	[Laughter] Little break, little break! And man, he was old enough to have that sibling rivalry. Because they say he said he was glad that Roscoe died. He didn’t want him—yeah, so he say, “I’m glad he died.” But then, the very next year, in [19]46, Thomas was born. So, he didn’t have much of a break—to stay the baby. [Laughter] You know, that was it: staying the baby. So, from [19]46 to [19]58, there were no babies. And that was—! [Laughter] That was the gap. But there





were ten of us, five and five. Oh, and the other thing they did: my momma’s brother’s wife died in childbirth. She had her fourth child in [19]48, 1948, and they thought he was dead. They were working with her, because she was hemorrhaging, and she was at home—of course. And they said, a doctor had told her that she needed to stop having babies so close together. And so, they had put the baby in a shoebox, because they thought he was dead—well, he was premature. Seven months, I think. So, they pushed him under the bed, and they were working with her. Someone, my aunt that lived in Jacksonville, heard something; and he was crying. The baby was. And they said, “Is there a cat in here?” They were looking around for a cat. And so, they looked under the bed, and that’s when they realized it was a baby in the shoebox crying. They pulled him out, and they say he was just kicking and hollering. They hadn’t cleaned him up or nothing, you know? Just got him out of the way because they figured he was dead.

	W:	And he was fine and everything afterwards?



	R:	He went to the hospital. Of course, he was in an incubator, in AGH, for I don’t know for how long. But he is fine, yeah.

	W:	Left under the bed in a shoebox, and—



	R:	And what happened, though, when he was discharged from the hospital, one of Momma’s sisters—well, at that time, there wasn’t but two, because the other one had to—no, it was three. Her sister kept him for a while. But when he was still a baby—maybe he was a toddler; I think he was walking—when Momma went and got him, came to live with us. So, he doesn’t even remember any other parents.





Momma and Daddy are his parents. He does know his dad. He did know his dad, because he didn’t die until [19]56, so he was eight years old.

	W:	Did his mother not survive? R:	No.

	W:	So, the baby lived in the shoebox, but she died.



	R:	She died. Right. So, he then was the next brother. And we consider him that now. My dad always told us that—he had, Daddy used to have a hundred and twenty acres of land when we were growing up, working hard on. And he always said, “The little boy”—that’s what he called him; his name’s Timothy Horn—he said, “That little boy got as much here as you all.”

	W:	Y’all all grew up together equal.



	R:	Right. He said, “He gets his share of the land.” And he said, “That’s the way it is.” W:	I haven’t asked you about your mother and father. What were their names?

	R:	Momma was a Horn. Her name was Edna Pearl Horn when she married Daddy at fifteen. And Daddy was Gus. Gus Washington.

	W:	Where were they from originally?



	R:	I told you Daddy was from Bland. And Momma. You know, Momma—I didn’t know some of this stuff. When we had Momma’ ninetieth birthday, I I had her to write out some information that I’d put in some form. But Momma was born about five miles from where she was living then. Now, when Daddy married her, they were living in Santa Fe. Because Grandma was—

	W:	A little bit further east.





	R:	Right. Exactly. So, I kind of thought that’s where Momma was from, Santa Fe.



But Momma’s from Bland, she was born right down the lane.



	W:	What about your mother’s mother and father? Who were they and where are they from?

	R:	Now, my mother’s mother was Rosa Horn. Her maiden name was S-T-R-O-D-E- R, and we pronounced it “Straw-der,” but I’m understanding now its pronounced “Stroh-der.” Because there were other S-T-R-A-W-D-E-Rs that were their cousins. And actually, there’s a Stroder now that—all the family spell their name S-T-R-O-D-E-R except one sister. She uses S-T-R-A-W. And I don’t know where that’s from. So, that was Momma’s momma. She was a Stroder, who married a Horn. And from Bland area. And her husband was Daniel Horn from across the river. Across the river was Union County? Union County.

	W:	Providence.



	R:	Or was it Columbia? Which one of those counties was he from?



	W:	It depends which river. Was it the new river? Or is it Santa Fe River? R:	Santa Fe! [Laughter]

	W:	Yeah, depends on which river. [Laughter] I guess that’s Columbia County if he was from Santa Fe.

	R:	Yep, across the river.



	W:	It’s all close out there, though! R:	It is! It is.

	W:	I’ve spent some time over in Worthington Springs, and Dukes, and all that. It’s all tied in together.





	R:	Okay. Because our property, when 75 came through, it took my grandmomma’s house, where I told you my daddy grew up. It went right through her property.

And I didn’t know it could do that, they could take someone’s homestead. But they did. And it was right at the river, because we used to go—I was the one that had to go fishing with Grandma every day. Every day after school, seemed like, Daddy said, “Cat? Momma want to go fishing.” And I was the one. There was the Santa Fe River, the Black Lake, and the Kay Summit. Those were the three places. And those lakes were tributaries off of the river. We going be out there until dark, black dark; couldn’t even see—seemed to me. But when you came out, though—because it was trees and all—you came out, it wasn’t dark. But it just seemed like it was black-dark to me. Grandma would, “Let’s go around there. They biting over there, I think. One’d jump up and stuff.”

	W:	What kind of fish did she catch?



	R:	I think mainly specks. And breams, breams. And catfish.



	W:	Did she keep her own tackle kit? Did she have a tackle box with different hooks and stuff? Hats and everything?

	R:	Mmhm, mmhm, mmhm.



	W:	[Laughter] And did she cane pole?



	R:	Cane pole, that’s what it was. And that was on my mother’s side, I was telling you about my grandparents. So they called Grandma, “Rodie.” And Grandaddy, “Dan.” But it was Daniel and Rodie. But, he was never around. He left them when—and Grandma had seven children. And Momma say she remembered him going and coming back. Well, they found out later that he had another family





somewhere else—it was in Florida. And that’s where he was going, I guess; when he wasn’t with them, he was down there with the other family.

	W:	Do y’all have any connection with them? Because we have something kind of like that in my family, too. So there’s, when the railroad, the Flagler, everywhere there was a stop on the road, there was kind of a part of a family somewhere, we found out later on.

	R:	They did. My mother did. They knew their brother and sister. And I met them. We met them, actually. But when they died, we lost contact. Because I don’t know if they had any children or not. Because when they came up they never did bring any children. And when we’d see them, it would be mainly at funerals. They’d come to some of my brothers’ and sisters’ funerals. And my mother outlived all of them. The majority of them died young. Like my uncle that I told you that died in [19]56; he was thirty-six. And he had a sister, Momma had a sister, that died in [19]53 and I think she was also thirty-six. She had a brother that died in his four- ohs, a sister in her fifties, and then a brother—it was just her and this brother for a while. And he died in his sixties, which was in [19]90, maybe in [19]90- something. So, she was the only one for several years.

	W:	How about on your dad’s side?



	R:	Okay. And I was telling you that his grandfather, William Washington Sr, homesteaded property in Bland. And he’s the one that—did you see “African American Lives?” Whoopi Goldberg was a part of that, and it was her great-great grandfather that homesteaded that. And that was part of the documentary. They came—Whoopi didn’t come. But the people came here and did some family out





there. And that was my daddy’s grandfather. His name was William Washington Sr. Now, my grandfather, Daddy’s daddy, was the thirteenth child of his, because they had sixteen children. He and my grandmother Elsie. I’ve got that, a chart of them. And my granddaddy was the third from the bottom. Whoopi’s great- grandmother, his sister, was the youngest one, youngest child. And then there was Malachi, and then David, his name was David. And he farmed—he died young. Daddy said he died in [19]29, and he was born in [18]86. He was forty- three.

	W:	Where was he born at? Where was he from? Elsie’s husband, your grandfather?



	R:	He was born—let’s see, when did my granddaddy homestead the land? In [19]37. No, he was forty in [19]37. I don’t know. He wasn’t born in slavery, because [18]86 was after slavery. So, he must have been born out there, too.

	W:	And how about her?



	R:	Elsie—or you mean William?



	W:	No, before we get to William, your grandfather’s wife Elsie, where was she from? R:	She was from—she was born in Florida, but now, I don’t know where in Florida.

He was born in Virginia, William was.



	W:	Okay. Now, how about William Sr?



	R:	That’s who I’m talking about. William Sr was born in Virginia, and his wife was Elsie, and she was born in Florida.

	W:	Let me make sure I didn’t mess up then, because I interjected a little bit; I might’ve confused myself. Your dad’s dad’s name is—?

	R:	David.





	W:	And who was David’s wife?



	R:	Grandma Nora. Her name was Lenora, L-E-N-O-R-A. Lenora Day. And she was born in Bland.

	W:	And David?



	R:	He was born in Bland.



	W:	Now William, then, is David’s father? Your great-grandfather? R:	Mmhm.

	W:	Okay. And that was William and Elsie. R:	Mmhm.

	W:	Okay, terrific.



	R:	And so, it was David, or Dave, and Nora. Grandma was Lenora Day, Day was her maiden name. And her father owned a lot of property out in Bland. His name was Gus. Gus Day. So, those were my grandparents on both sides.

	W:	Now, can you go back any further than that?



	R:	I can go back on Momma’s side to my great-grandfather, as well. Well, I went back to my great-grandfather on my daddy’s side, William Washington. My great- grandfather on my momma’s side was Poppa Jim. His real name was James Stroder—and I guess “Stroh-der,” but James “Straw-der.” And Poppa Jim was in his nineties when he died. He died in [19]70, as well.

	W:	Where was he originally from?



	R:	Oakey Woods, I think. Now where—Oakey Woods is in Alachua County. And it’s out on the spring road, have you heard of that spring road? Because there’s a cemetery out there. And some of our relatives are buried in that cemetery, which





nobody’s keeping up. And we were trying to get involved with that—the Bland Community Group. But, I think Poppa Jim is from there. But from when I knew him, he was living in Bland.

W:   What about his wife?



	R:	Poppa had three wives that I know of. Now, my mother’s grandmother—his wife that he had the children by—was Grandma Ella. E-L-L-A was her name, and she was a Lee: Ella Lee. And she was a Lee. His second wife was Miss Virginia; this was the one that he was with when we were children, and he lived near us. Her name was Virginia, and that’s all I know; I don’t know where she was from or anything.

	W:	Was there a death? Or was this a separation?



	R:	Miss Virginia died. But Grandma Ella was still living. I knew Grandma Ella; I don’t know when she died, maybe in [19]48 or something. But I remember her. Then Miss Virginia died, and he married Miss Booker. What was her first name? I don’t remember her first name, because we always called her “Miss Booker.” Her son lives up the street, there.

	W:	Where was she from?



	R:	She was from out on the spring road; it was all Alachua County. It was all in the same general circle, same general area. And they separated before she died. Poppa was hard to deal with, I guess. Old! [Laughter]

	W:	What was it like having so many brothers and sisters when you grew up? Did you have chores? What kind of things did you all do?

	R:	We had weeks of dishwashing.





	W:	I had that growing up, too. [Laughter]



	R:	And we had to get wood up out of the wood pile. Daddy would cut it until somebody got big enough to cut it. He cut the wood, and put it on the—well, the first house that I remember, there was a fireplace, there was a window. And of course, the wood windows, you know. And the place that we put the wood on was just outside the window. So, we had to bring wood there, every day. We had to feed the chickens, and the ducks, and the ganders. We had all of that when we lived [inaudible 49:04]. We had to collect eggs; we had a chicken coop. We had to milk the cows before we went to school. No account how cold it was. We had to, of course, make up the beds. Get all that before we go to school.

	W:	Did you have horses and mules?



	R:	We had—mmhm. My brothers had to feed the horses and mules. I had to keep water in the drum. We had to shuck corn, and then shell it to take it to the mill. This is early on, this didn’t go on all the time. After a while, we were buying meal and stuff.

	W:	Summer, you did tobacco?



	R:	We had tobacco. It seemed like tobacco was year-round, because we had to— W:	Plant the field; you had to take it to the market; you had to crop it, hand it, tie it,

cure it. [Laughter]



	R:	From the seeds, when the seeds start breaking through, we had to pull the weeds out of the tobacco bed.

	W:	What’d you think about those big, green worms?





	R:	Oh, goodness! We had the poison for them. And if they got too big, we had to pick them off, and put them in something, and then throw them on the fire. You know all about that, huh? Someone told you?

	W:	I hand-tied, cropped, when I was in Carolina, yeah. Tobacco. We did a lot of tobacco. We did strawberries; we did cucumbers in the spring. And we did tobacco, from growing it to taking it to market.

	R:	Yeah. That was a hard job.



	W:	It was. It paid good, though. I like tobacco.



	R:	It paid good. That was the only money job they had. Because what he did was, you know, would get fertilizer, and all that stuff on credit every year—seeds. And then, at the end of the year, when tobacco sold, he would pay everybody up. And he just prided himself, he’d be telling us, “Now, I owed this man so much”—he’d be talking to Momma; sometimes Momma was listening, and sometimes she wasn’t [Laughter]—he said, “And so, I paid him. And I owed Mr. So-and-so so much, and I owed Godbow”—that was the grocery man; see, we would, High Springs, we could get groceries all year long like that—“and I owed McCloud”— that was the clothing person, clothing store. And he would pay everybody up.

And when he got sick—I think it made him sick, too, is when he couldn’t pay his bills. He couldn’t pay everybody at the end of the year that he owed. Because he say, “If you pay them, you could always go right back to them and get what you need.” And he told us that if you can’t pay them, go to them, and say, “I don’t have it today,” and tell them when you will have it, and pay them. He say, “Keep your word.” He was a good person to raise children to be responsible.





	W:	Did you ever go to the tobacco market in High Springs?



	R:	Yeah. Yeah. Well, High Springs—see, when I went, I was—I guess I was grown and gone when it was in High Springs. But Daddy would still, that’s where he sold tobacco, at the end, when he [inaudible 52:50]. But it was Lake City when we were children. We went to the last—all of us. It was like carnival. And they did have that kind of thing there, you know: you ride on this ferris wheel, and the little bumper cars. And so, we all went, the last crop, the last selling, everybody went to Lake City. And we just had a good time. Stayed all day, meeting everybody, and enjoying the carnival. Yeah. But High Springs, I did go to the warehouse in High Springs, but I’d left home then.

	W:	Since you don’t know that much about High Springs, I won’t dwell on it. But just, do you recall anything significant about High Springs back in those—?

	R:	Oh, I know a lot about High Springs, because that was our town. That’s where we went. We would go to the movies. Seemed like—

	W:	Priest Theatre?



	R:	Priest Theatre, every Saturday. W:	I still go to the Priest Theatre.

	R:	Do you?



	W:	Yes, I’ve seen movies there.



	R:	My daddy and Momma would take us to the movie almost—I guess it was every Saturday. And it was so dark in there! That’s what I remember. You’d buy your ticket and go upstairs.

	W:	So you were in the mezzanine?





	R:	That’s right. In the mezzanine! [Laughter] W:	Blacks had to go upstairs.

	R:	We had to go upstairs. And, like I said, when you get—you have to adjust your eyes to even see how to go to your seat. And find a place that all of us could sit, in a row. And then—

[Break in interview due to interruption]



	R:	Oh, High Springs. We attended the movie almost every Saturday. That’s before there were teenagers in the family. We were still going with Momma and Daddy. And they were taking us there to take us to the movie. And we’d buy groceries—I guess the last thing, that was Mr. Godbow, that was in High Springs.

	W:	Where was the grocery store at?



	R:	From the Priest Theatre, it was west. It was going down towards Brown’s Funeral Home. Toward Mt. Carmel Church. But it was before you got there. It was between—

	W:	You know where the Grady House and the Esterlin house are now? What they call those, on the right-hand side when you heading north on 27? Is it before that, or after that?

	R:	It’s after the Grady House, but not far. And it’s on the opposite side. Mmhm. And the ten-cent store was another place we went to. That’s where you bought your candy and ice cream.

	W:	Where there any Black-owned businesses in High Springs, or was it just mostly just—?





	R:	The Black-owned places that I knew, businesses, were jukes. I remember—and seem like there was a pool place. But when I was a teenager, there was a place called Hertie Mae’s. And, what was that man name? He was a Dudley. I can’t remember.

	W:	Where was Hertie Mae’s at?



	R:	Hertie Mae’s was off of 27, near Mt. Carmel. Do you know where Mt. Carmel Church is?

	W:	Mmhm.



	R:	Okay. If you made a left turn at Mt. Carmel’s, there was a Black business that—I think Mr. Bryant owned that business. And it was, I guess they played pool and that kind of thing there. And then, if you went to the—was it across the railroad? Or, just before you got to the railroad, if you made another left turn, then Hertie Mae’s was down that road.

	W:	Now, when you say a “juke,” just so we are straight about it; I think you and I might know what a juke is, but how would you describe that sort of business?

	R:	That sort of business is one that they had a juke box. You could put your quarter in and choose your—whatever you wanted to dance by. And, so it was a place that you could dance. You could buy sandwiches, hot dogs, hamburgers—

	W:	Spirits? [Laughter]



	R:	You could buy alcohol. I don’t know if it was legal, but—. [Laughter] And you could take it in, if you—well, I think it was illegal, so it must—because I remember having to slip.





	W:	But you also might get to see somebody who’d eventually become famous. I mean, they had a Chitlin’ Circuit artist that would come through.

	R:	Oh, yeah. But you know, I don’t think they came through High Springs. But I do remember seeing B.B. King and Bo Diddley and all of them here in Gainesville. The thing, what came through High Springs once a year, this time of year—what was that called? Oh, gee! They have dancing girls, and somebody would be telling jokes. And it was a family thing, though, because we all went as children.

	W:	Cabaret? Vaudeville? Revue?



	R:	No. I’ll think of it after a while. But that came every year. The—hm. W:	But, it was a show?

	R:	And Silas Green. “Silas Green from New Orleans, craziest fool you ever seen!” It was a show, and they would set it up under a tent.

	W:	Lots of people would come to it?



R:  Lots of people! Everybody. It was like a reunion, a gathering or something. W:  Black and White?

R:  Black and White. It was Black and White. But of course, the Whites were over here, Blacks were sitting there.

W:  So, literally, the audiences were segregated. Was that kind of everything you did? You almost knew where the line was? There was the White people over there, and the Black people on the other side?

R:  Yeah. Because Momma started working at the restaurants in High Springs. And we had to go to the back door window to get the food.

W:   Which restaurant was that?





	R:	Barber’s was one of them. W:	Where was that located?

	R:	Barber’s was located off of 27, to the right. And my aunt cooked there, too. W:	Before you get to the Grady House?

	R:	Yeah. Grady House is down there. Isn’t there—I think it’s past the Grady House, because I think there’s, like, a 7-Eleven—

	W:	There’s a 7-Eleven, uh-huh.



	R:	—past the Grady House. Okay, at that, you’d turn there, to go to Barber’s. Take a right.

	W:	Right at that corner. Okay, yeah, that looked like a little business district, because it’s some businesses right there, and then, there’s that street that runs—you can run all the way down to 441 on that street. So, that used to be an area where there were Black businesses?

	R:	It wasn’t a Black business. Barber’s—actually, Barber was the policeman in High Springs. And he owned the restaurant.

W:  But the Black people had to come to the back to get their food. How old were you when you first started thinking about those differences and what that meant? You know, stepping off the sidewalk, and separate audiences, and having to go to the back of the store?

	R:	I remember my Daddy talking about that. He did that well, too. He would tilt his hat, and he would, “Mr. So-and-so.” “Fine, Gus. How you doing?” And then, I talked to Daddy—how old was I? I must’ve been eight or ten. Because I’d say, “Daddy, he call you Gus, and you call him Mr. Bish? You older than he is.” I knew





to honor people with Mr. and Ms.; they had taught us anybody older. But not because they’re Black or White, or because it’s White.

	W:	Yeah, that part came out later. R:	Yeah. Yeah.

	W:	What did he say about that?



	R:	He said, “Well, Cat, that’s just the way it is.” He accepted it. I say, “Well, I don’t like it.” So, I guess—and I remember that. And the other thing he would say to us is to always have your own. He say if you have your own place, the White man can’t say, “Go!” And he can’t say, “You have to get up and work right now!” Say if you wanted to stay in bed a little longer, if you wanted to do that; whatever you want to do, you can do it. But you don’t have to move when the White man say, “Move.” But if you living on his place, you have to. And of course, I’m sure that’s what he was taught, too. Because he never lived on the White man’ place, see? And we didn’t either. We never moved, right where my Momma’s house is now. That same general area is where I was born. We never lived anywhere but there—until we left home. Wednesday, all of us were at home; except my oldest sister, she got sick. This one got sick during the night and she wasn’t there. But all the rest of us and our siblings, we always had Christmas at the house. After Christmas, we call that “down to the house.” After Christmas, everybody came down there—yeah, all the time, after we got grown and left. Then we’d come back during Christmastime, but not on Christmas day once we started having children. Because you know, you’re home Christmas day. But we’d all get together down there. We used to buy gifts for everybody, but then we started





pulling names when it got to be so many of us. [Laughter] So, we have Christmas, and gift exchange, and caroling, and play games.

W:   Church?



R:  Not church. We sang carols, and we do some Kwanzaa; whatever the principle is for the day; it was Ujima, Wednesday, so we talked about that and what it meant. What is it? Having—what day of the week, and having your own—

W:  It’s the fifth day, isn’t it? R:  Today is the sixth.

W:   The sixth day?



	R:	Because tomorrow is the last one. First, it ends on the first. So, today is—habari gani. Habari gani is, what? Greetings. And so, now, you supposed to tell me what the principle is.

	W:	Well, ndio bibi laa. [Laughter]



	R:	It’s K-U-U-M-B-A. Kuumba. Which means, it’s creativity, I think.



	W:	Kuumba. I got to go back to my Karenga. At one time, my parents made sure I knew that stuff. [Laughter] Because we grew up, it was very much in the Movement. And Angela Davis buttons, dashikis, afros—oh, yes! Yes. David Walker’s Appeal, and Soledad brothers in prison. Everything. They were very committed.

	R:	My momma was just amazed that there was a Black president. She didn’t think she’d live to see a Black president.

	W:	My parents, too. And I have to admit, I was a bit surprised—not so much that he won. I went in very enthusiastic, and voted for him, but I was more working on





local stuff, because I was thinking, “That’s not going to happen. But at the very least, not going to win Florida.” So, I was surprised with that, as well. What does that change mean to you? I mean, some people talk about a “post-racial America.” Do you see that? How do you look at Barack Obama’s election?

	R:	How do I look at his election? I think that the election was a turning point. I kind of see it as a turning point in America. Even though he—well, you know what his background is—I think, though—I don’t know. I think it’s like a backlash, too, that the White people have used it to just lash out to make sure that things don’t go well in America.

	W:	‘There’s a Black president now, so you can’t complain about stuff anymore.’ R:	Yeah.

	W:	So, a turning point, but not a watershed moment. Everything hasn’t been washed away and started anew. My mom was telling me the same thing over Christmas. She was very happy that he won, but she doesn’t know if things have gotten better or worse.

	R:	Just like integration. Just like integration. We were saying relationships, Black people, teachers, were much more concerned about the students.

	W:	Well, they would hug a kid, and bring them close. And now, all those things are looked at in suspicion. If you interested in a child, “Well, why are you interested in my child?” “Because they have great potential.” “Is that the only reason why?”

	R:	Oh, gosh!



	W:	Yeah. I remember when I was a kid, I got spankings from all kind of people I didn’t really know, but they were the neighbors there on the street. You better not





do anything wrong; and then they’d call your parents, and—. But there was a lot of love. You knew that the people cared about you.

	R:	And you knew what was going to happen. W:	Exactly.

	R:	So, you didn’t do anything that you—that would get back to Momma and Daddy. W:	And if you did, you just knew. Yeah, you just knew. But now, people are afraid to even give kids instruction. They don’t tell them to say, “Please,” and “Thank you,”

or “Yes, ma’am,” “No, ma’am,” because somebody’s going to come up and say, “Who are you to try to give my child values? I’ll give my own child values.” “Well, your child is rude.” “Well, that’s my problem, not yours. You educate him, I’ll worry about the other stuff.”

	R:	Isn’t it sad? Isn’t it sad. Mm! W:	Do you think he’ll win again?

	R:	Not unless there’s some changes before the election. And I guess it depends on who is running against him. Now, have you done what you wanted to do here, today?

	W:	Oh, well, I’ve enjoyed our conversation. We even got to talk about Barack Obama. I guess I would ask you a little bit about your education. What are your first memories of school? And you know, we don’t have to do it all today, by the way. [Laughter]

	R:	Oh, okay. My first memories are walking to school. And of course, I had two sisters already there. And of being in the room with the first and third graders. And the fourth through sixth graders were the others.





	W:	Who was your first teacher?



	R:	I think it was Ms. Simmons, Unita Simmons. That lady that— W:	I saw her picture. Did you like Ms. Simmons?

	R:	I liked Ms. Simmons. Ms. Simmons lived in the neighborhood. She was a Jackson and she married Mr. Simmons, Buddy Simmons, who was a member of my church.

	W:	So, you was seven days a week, then!



	R:	No, she [inaudible 1:12:00] church. But no, she didn’t go in our church. But the Methodist church that she was a member of was in the community as well.

	W:	The AME?



	R:	AME. Is there a difference between Methodist and AME?



	W:	Well, they’re both Methodist, but the AME is African Methodist Episcopal. So, the tradition is—

	R:	And then there’s, I thought it was United Methodist. Well, at that time, it must have been AME. Because United Methodist [inaudible 1:12:30].

	W:	Well, there’s the CME too. So there’s the CME, there’s the UM, and there’s AME.



	R:	Must have been was just Methodist. And, yeah. I remember the heater. There was a wood heater that we had to keep wood in.

	W:	Y’all had to bring the wood for the teacher?



	R:	We had to bring the wood for the teacher, right. W:	Well, that’s fair, that’s fair.

	R:	And I remember my grandmother Rodie, Momma’s momma, lived not far from school. And so, she would bring us food. She’d bring cupcakes and all kind of





food for us, and the teachers. She’d bring it for the teachers, too. And so, that was a good time. I remember school being easy, it wasn’t hard or anything.

W:  Did you consider your family, or people in your family, were they leaders in the community? And if not, who were the leaders? How would you define who the leaders were when you were growing up?

	R:	I’m thinking about, church-wise. My family, I had a uncle that was a preacher. He wasn’t preaching then, but—. But my family—on both sides, actually; my momma’s momma, and my daddy, and the Joneses. Now they owned, Mr. Jones owned a lot of property out there at the time. But, yeah. [Interruption as answering machine goes off.] Well, yeah. I guess our families were. The Washingtons, the Stroders. And there were tributary—you know, branches, because my grandmother was a Stroder, but then her brother married my daddy’s sister, and they had children that were our age. You know, we all grew up together.

	W:	Cousins. [Laughter] R:	Cousins.

	W:	Everybody had cousins.



	R:	Yeah, and the Days, and the Joneses.



W:  Would you that that growing up, you got a lot of training in leadership from your family, and the elders, the people in the community? And how would you define that leadership? What has it meant to you now, the lessons that you learned?

R:   What it’s meant to me now is to demonstrate leadership. Is to do what I’m teaching, and what I’m asking others to follow me doing. To be that role model, to





be the leader that you are asking, or that you are—to do what you say. To do what you’re saying for others to do.

	W:	Would you say that’s your definition of leadership? What would your definition of leadership be?

	R:	Would be to… My definition of leadership would be to lead by—oh, well, see, I guess you can’t define it with the word.

	W:	Oh, sure you can. This is not strict, this is just how you’re feeling.



	R:	Okay. My definition of leadership is to lead by example. To lead by example.



	W:	Well, let’s not use it all up at one time. I do want to come back and talk to you about high school and some of your post-high school education experiences. But for now, on behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, I want to thank you for letting us speak to you in your home, on the last day of the year of 2010. And with those thanks, to offer you the opportunity for final privilege or last words in my interviews. Any thought that comes to mind, or a comment you want to make, or an observation; it can be about the interview or anything else. And when you conclude those remarks, that’ll conclude our interview today.

	R:	Okay. In thinking back, I believe that everything that I have learned, I’ve gotten the basis for it from my home training and my early schooling. And of course, the church. And all of it is just kind of entwined together: the home, the church, and the early schooling. It was those people that were instrumental in making me who I am today. And I wouldn’t change any of it. Thank you.

[End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, November 9, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019