AAHP 317; Smith; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 317 Lorene Smith

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant and Justin Hosbey on September 16, 2013 1 hour, 5 minutes | 41 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 317

Interviewee: Lorene Smith

Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant and Justin Hosbey Date: September 16, 2013



	D:	If you’ll just say your name, today’s date, and your birth date. S:	By born name is Lorene Sanders. Born November 23rd, 1942. H:	Where at?

	S:	Sumter County, Georgia.



	D:	You wanna say your name too?



	H:	And my name is Justin Hosbey and today is August 16th, 2013. D:	And I’m Justin Dunnavant.

	H:	So I guess I’ll start the way Justin suggested. Tell me about your grandparents.



What are your memories of your grandparents?



	S:	My grandparents was very, very hardworking and loving grandparents. Of course, my grandfather was the sole survivor because my grandmother was sickly. And she was home, and we played around, and we helped to take care of her, all the children that were at home and grandchildren.

	H:	And what were their names, your grandparents?



	S:	Willie Mae, and her maiden name was Mathis, and Frank James. Frank Pat James.

	H:	Alright, and Pat was his nickname? S:	Yes.

	H:	Okay. Were they born in Sumter County, Georgia as well?



S:  No, my grandmother was born in Schley County, Georgia, which is Buena Vista, Georgia. And my grandfather was born in Sumter County, Georgia, just as Sam Wise was Sumter County.





	H:	Okay, and who was Wise?



	S:	Was the employer of my grandfather. It’s a farm where he and the family lived before moving to Americus.

	H:	And you say Americus, where were they before they moved to Americus? S:	They were Plains, Georgia.

	H:	Plains, Georgia, okay. So not far from Jimmy Carter?



	S:	Right at Jimmy Carter, yeah. As a matter of fact they had joined our land that connect and due to secret service and stuff they had to sell off some of the land to them in order to put the fence around for privacy for Carter.

	H:	Okay, after he came back from being president? S:	This was before.

	H:	Okay, okay.



	S:	It was during the time before the election, but he was running for president but it was during that time when he had tight security.

	H:	Alright, so you have your grandparents and they had how many children?



	S:	It was six girls and two boys. Let me see if I got that right now…yeah, six girls and two boys.

	H:	Okay, and what were their names? S:	Whose names? The children—

	H:	Your aunts and uncles.



	S:	The oldest girl was Learning Laster, Ruth Woods, Thelma Johnson, Felton Johnson—Felton James—then were was my momma, Katie Sanders, Joseph James, and Mary White.





	H:	Okay, I think that was all six. S:	Not all of them.

	H:	So, what did they call Aunt Thelma and Uncle Felton?



	S:	They were twins, they called them boy and gal. [Laughter] H:	Cause growing up we would always call her Aunt Gail.

	S:	Aunt Gail.



	H:	I thought her name was Aunt Gail, like G-A-I-L, and I went, “Who is Thelma?” [Laughter] Her name was Gail, so I went, “Uncle Boy, his name ain’t Boy?” “No, his name is Felton.” So Aunt Gail, Uncle Boy. So I guess, from that generation are there any stories that stand out from your life growing up from your aunts and uncles and your mom?

	S:	Well we were a very, very close knit family in almost everything that we did. We would like do it together along with some of my grandmother’s sisters and stuff. They used to get together and do the cannin and the killin the hog, all that stuff at the end of— what is this? August? September maybe, to prepare for the winter. And we used to have fun, but the smaller children we more or less stay, we in the city now, stay to ourselves. They loved to talk and entertain, and we went to church right across the street from my great-grandfather’s house in Plains, Georgia. And we did also go to Plains, Georgia to live for a little while, but not long. That was just until they got the house ready in Americus for us to move in.

	H:	So what’s the story behind the family moving from Plains to Americus?



	S:	My grandfather was on Sam Wise Farm and he had started getting older and sore. And he asked the family to take him along because he couldn’t do nothin.





He couldn’t work like he should be able to work when livin on the farm. But they in turn bought a little two room house in Americus and renovated and made into a big family house. And in Americus he got a job at a nursery where they did some of the same things that they did on the farm, like raising food and all of that. That’s why we had plenty and didn’t have to worry about some of the stuff, and stuff that the other people, but he would take care of everybody in the neighborhood. Bringing vegetables and meat and all that stuff to other people.

	H:	So he worked in an agricultural nursery— S:	Kinda, yeah.

	H:	For like plants and— S:	Yeah.

	H:	Okay. Tell us a story about the house on McCoy Street—or what was the address of the two room house that granddaddy built—

	S:	It was 309 McCoy Street.



	H:	Okay, and tell us about that house then.



	S:	How it—okay, they all, they worked together. Well, I can’t remember—I remember my mother was living there, and one of my aunts, and her children. But they were just there all the time until you never knew. And it had a long back porch where we would used to go on Sundays and do ice cream and where we would all have dinner and stuff. And at the end of each year they would add a room. And as they add a room, they bring in another sibling and their family in, until right now it’s—let’s see one, two, three, four—it’s eight rooms now. And they got great big backyard where we used to go and sweep yards, and had parties,





and marshmallows, and all that stuff in the backyard. We used to have fun there. Wish I was still there.

	H:	On McCoy Street?



	S:	Yeah, I love that house.



	D:	Were the other houses the same size in the community or was that the largest house in the neighborhood?

	S:	Our house, yes. Our house was the largest house, as a matter of fact, the one that lives right above us was—it had three rooms—two rooms one side, and then the kitchen, like, they had to use to come out the back door to our side door to use the toilet. The other houses from, two, three, four, to the corner, and to the left was maybe five—they was like the shotgun houses. And they had the toilet thing outside, they had that. And eventually it was after the [19]60s before they were made to just had to get rid of that because of health reasons. It was kind of terrible back there. But it worked out for the people that was there that was in the need though. Uh-huh.

	H:	Was there a name for the neighborhood that y’all lived in?



	S:	Yeah, McCoy. McCoy Hill School was right across the street. And that went from K through seventh. And it was the McCoy Hill Neighborhood. And then after me being from one of the families there, and was always looked upon to help do stuff in the community. And I went to kindergarten there, from there to the first grade I would just walk across the street and stand behind the door and cry for two hours before they find me, take me...

	H:	[Laughter]





	D:	[Laughter]



	S:	And then once I got in there, the bell ring to go home, I didn’t want to go home.



Yeah, right across the street from the school.



	H:	So was that a segregated school? S:	No.

	H:	It wasn’t a segregated school? S:	No, it was all Black.

	H:	That’s what I mean, was it like a— S:	Oh, was it segregated?

	H:	Yes, yes, that’s what I mean, was it segregated? S:	Oh yeah, it was segregated, yeah.

	H:	Okay, okay, and there was a high school in the area?



	S:	Not in the exact area. I wanna say maybe a mile, mile and a half, to high school that went from eighth through twelfth.

	H:	Uh-huh, just for the Black children? S:	Yeah.

	H:	Okay.



	D:	What was it like, what was education like at those schools? What did you all learn?

	S:	Well I enjoyed education at elementary, but then more in high school because I thought I was a big girl going to high school, because I excelled. And whatever was put in front of me to do, and if I needed help, like in math sometime I did before I just really got the concept, I would go outside with my granddaddy in the





evening and by the time he wind down, and I got to ask all these questions about quart, pints, and all this stuff. And he gets out his corn, and his basket, and his jar and he measured, I would start measuring. He would show me what a pint is and how many whatever it is to do a pint. And then he goes up to the quart and go all the way down to bushels, and then he says, “When we get to the K-L I’m not going over there.” I say, “Okay daddy.” He said, “That was bad enough as it is.” But I really learned that. And I really appreciate that because I could not do it, didn’t know it. But I finally got to it and then I began to like math. Math end up being my very main subject.

	H:	How come you didn’t pass that gene on down to me then? S:	Pass what?

	H:	That math gene.



	S:	I don’t know, I tried, I tried— H:	What happened?

	S:	--and when you was visiting me in New Yok, you did everything except for that. Even now, I’m gonna track back on when you were little, and I used to sit you at the table every day after lunch. And you would do everything I asked you to do except try to put one and one together, two and two together. You just could not do that. So when you came to visit in New York, I had you on the bed. Well you was about maybe three or four and we was doing math that day and you say, “Sweetie I can’t do this math!” I said, “Okay, what we gonna do is, you gonna go to sleep.” And I made you go to sleep that day and the next day. I don’t know, I





think I did something to you with that math because it was a hell of a long time before you got it.

	D:	[Laughter]



	S:	He didn’t even learn the concept of math till he was in the eleventh grade. And ‘fraid of going to school. If he go to school, go to college, he best he want to be an architect. At best you take something where you don’t have to deal with figures. [Laughter]

	H:	Okay, so tell me about church.



	D:	And you said y’all went to the church in Plains across from your great grandfather’s house. Which church was that?

	S:	It was St. John AME. D:	Tell me about that.

	S:	The same church that you had the chance to visit a couple of years ago. It was just mainly people from the neighborhood, but it was always full. And I used to often wonder why was it always full of older people, but the older people were living there because I guess their family, my mother’s age and on, had moved other places. Because we lived in Americus where my great-grandfather was still living in Plaines across the street, and we would come from Americus to church. It was about fifteen minutes every Sunday. Yeah, I enjoyed the church too. Used to have outside picnics and all that stuff.

	H:	Who was the Pastor of St. John AME?



	S:	—Trying to think. I think Reverend Brown. Can’t remember the first name. Was it



W. L or something? But Reverend Brown was, as far as I can remember back,





was a minister there. My grandfather was a steward, plus treasurer. And we had some other older family members that was there. We used to love to go to church when, to hear him praying, pray long. Oh lord, some of us just used to get so decorated. Yeah, cause then when we got big, you know, I was the one that sit on the end and make them pay attention. Because surely as you got in that car and got home, you gon tell something about what that preacher said to them. Yep. But it was easy going.

	D:	It’s interesting that it was a Methodist church named after a Catholic Saint. Was that normal, to have a church named after saints? AME church?

	S:	I don’t know, well you know, some of the name came from, the James came from my great-grandparents because of the land there. The land was their land. Now where the saint come from, I don’t know.

	H:	Oh no, he talking about the name of St. John AME church. S:	That’s what I’m saying, the name of the church.

	H:	What you said, you talking about the James, you’re talking about your last name James right?

	S:	My grandfather.



	H:	Yeah, he was asking just about why, do you know why they named the church— S:	Oh, why the, oh—

	H:	After St. Mark, or St. John I mean. S:	I don’t know, I don’t know.

	H:	Cause actually down in Plaines— S:	That was before my time.





	H:	It’s two AME churches, there’s a St. John and a St. Mark. D:	Oh okay.

	S:	And St. Mark is a big White church.



	H:	In ASA Mark is the White church. Actually, no, it’s not AME—



	S:	No it’s a Black, it’s a Black St. Mark down there in what’s that place, it’s not Lebeon—

	H:	Lebanon.



	S:	Well, maybe so.



	H:	Lebanon is the name of the church, its Lebanon AME Church, right?



	S:	Okay. And then the Jimmy Carter church right there. That was a—was it St.



Mark?



	H:	That’s not St. Mark.



	S:	That big brick church right there. H:	Cause that’s an episcopal church.

	S:	Oh okay, well, you know the King man integrated that church one Sunday.



Walked up and—



	H:	Reverend?



	S:	—yeah.



	H:	Tell us about that.



	S:	That’s one of the reason that he’s not even here cause they was upset, they ran him away.

	H:	Tell me about that story, what happened?





	S:	All that I can remember, well I know I was old enough to remember what happened because we was demonstrating during that same time too. But he walked up in the church and walked all the way down and sat in the front pew. And it just became a big mess after that. And then they had to escort him out. What I think was he left before he even had to go to trial.

	D:	Do you know what year this was?



	S:	It had to be like in the [19]60s. Yeah.



	H:	I want to ask you a little bit about Jimmy Carter because he’s just so important to the history of where we’re from and where our family is from, and lots of our family has worked on Carter land. Was there anybody in our family who worked for Jimmy Carter or any of his brothers? Or his mother Lillian or daddy? Did we have any?

	S:	No, Lydia was—well she was a very nice lady. She used to bake cookies and stuff for us. And we’d go to the back door to get the cookies because if their husband saw us, you better be under the house, on top of the house, or somewhere. If you didn’t know cause, just make sure he didn’t see you. He was an evil, evil man. And anything dark was too Black for him. Very prejudiced man. Had a son, Billy was the same way. You couldn’t walk the street on the side—he had a little store and you couldn’t walk on that side of the street, much less go in the store. So I was visiting there one day. I had just came down from New York to visit, and my Aunt, we went out there. And I wanted a pop, and she said, “Well you know Billy is over there, if you wanna go over.” I said, “I’m gonna go!” She’s like, “Girl you better not go in that store.” I said, “I’m goin!” So I went up in there





and he was sitting there drinking that Pabst Blue Ribbon beer—that’s all he drank—and he asked me what did I want. And I said I wanted a pop. He said, “What is the pop?” So I tell him, “A drink, a cold drink, I wanted, all I wanted, and I’m not going in. If you want me to stand here, if you don’t mind, just give it to me and this is the money.” So he wouldn’t go, he just sat there and looked at me. I let me go before the man pull out a gun. He was crazy. He was as bad as his daddy, worse than his daddy I think because he was younger and should have known that a lot of that crazy stuff was wrong. Because he was younger than Jimmy, but Jimmy and the mother and God knows, they had to be good in order to survive because of the meanness and the corruption of his father and brother. Yeah. And I had a goddaughter that lived in Billy’s house in Plaines, great big house, yeah. Robyn from Americus. She bought that house, big house.

	H:	So I guess if we can bring it back to your family life and then we go down the generations so you have—

	S:	Oh you did, excuse me, you did ask me about Jimmy. Jimmy younger days was like through to the fence. And during the day his, well before he was old enough his mother used to take him around right there where you all went two years ago—

	H:	Archery?



	S:	Archery. And he played with those kids right there, he ate with them, probably slept with them half the time. You know that father didn’t know he wasn’t in the house, but he was alright even from a kid. But after he was twelve it was just a Black man that worked there and the father would always—maybe ten, between





ten and twelve—he would always make sure he would take Jimmy out and give him to that Black man so that he could teach him how to do the plyer, how to—to do whatever he’s supposed to be learning to do because after a while they knew they was gonna be leaving. And then the boys was gonna have to take over the farm.

	H:	Uh-huh, okay. When I was working with Dr. Jackson, they brought her to Plaines because in Jimmy Carter’s historic site they never mention anything about the Black influence on his childhood. And that’s why it was all about him and politics, and then high school. But during his childhood his nanny was a Black woman and he lived and played with all the Black people. Cause he lived in Archery, and Archery was the all Black part, like little outskirt of Plaines. And his father owned all that land; he would employ all the Black people to work on his land. So, they was saying at the historic site, they had nothing about the Black peoples and their contributions to making Jimmy Carter who he was. That’s why they brought Dr. Jackson and they did that ethno-historical stuff, yeah.

	S:	He’s a good man. I really liked Jimmy. H:	Jimmy? Yeah.

	S:	And his mother too. You know his mother was afraid from the U.S. and went into Peace Core.

	H:	Really?



	S:	Uh-huh, Ms. Lillian. She was a sweet lady—



	H:	And what was her role, like what was her occupation? S:	In the Peace Core?





	H:	I mean when she was in Plaines and Archery. S:	She was just a house wife.

	H:	Okay, okay. She wasn’t a nurse? S:	I’m trying to think. Midwife, yeah.

H:  Okay, okay, alright. So can you tell me a bit about maybe, what was segregation like in Americus? Because Americus is kinda where you grew up at for the most part. So what was—

	S:	Well, it was there and it was prevalent, I mean you could see it. You could almost feel it. But then we didn’t go to places where we know we would have problems. Or either we went downtown with somebody who we knew, and then not touch anything that didn’t belong to us or pick up anything like you want to buy, and don’t say anything back to whoever is talking to us or whatever. But I got grown and I went back down there to visit and when I hit the store somebody was behind me. And of course it made me mad cause, I’m past sixteen now and I’m out of school, and I don’t live here anymore, and I can say and do what I want to.

	H:	You was in New York then.



	S:	So what the heck—yeah—I was in New York going to school. So yes, I was a little bit of a problem right there. Because I couldn’t stand them walking behind me. I couldn’t stand for them to call me, “girl” and “what do you want” And all that crazy stuff. It was crazy to me. So one lady said to me one day that, if I didn’t like it I could just leave. And I just had to let her know one of these days we can all be back because we had gone, that was before the first freedom tour we went on when I went back to Americus. And I had to kind of remind her that she was on





the U.S. highway and I didn’t see her name wrote up there on that building, and to me it was, I think it was a dress shop, and it wasn’t privately owned cause it was privately owned she should have had her name up there, then she could say, “do not enter.”

	H:	Yeah, uh-huh.



	S:	Or “Black people don’t come in.” Whatever, you know. But just to say, no I couldn’t take too much of that.

	H:	[Laughter]



	D:	What was the difference between New York and—were you in New York City? S:	No, I was in Rochester, Upstate New York.

	D:	What was the difference between Rochester—what was it like transitioning from Americus to Rochester?

	S:	Oh, there’s such a different. It was really a different. And a lot of things that, well I’ve always heard that you had privilege and just and when you go up North, all of that. But me being a little country girl, I was like taking school in stride. But I still couldn’t stand for, I couldn’t be real close to a White girl. Cause they, a couple White girls wanted to follow me home, and we could be friends and stuff like that. And I just couldn’t because, one day we was standing on the porch and it was thundering and lightning and one of the girls told me, she say, “I think you better go in to get from around us.” I said, “Why?” “They say White people draw lightning.” I said, “You know as far as that’s concerned, the two of you might as well just go on and go home cause I cannot put on with this.” They had me straight scared; I used to hide in the closet.





	H:	[Laughter]



	S:	It started thundering and lightning. It was terrible. H:	You ain’t never told that story before.

	D:	[Laughter]



	S:	Oh that was terrible, but then I end up still being. And all right.



	H:	Cause I think that most of the lessons I’ve learned, and I think I get really my sense of that activist spirit is from you and from growing up around you, and hearing you talk about what you had done. That’s what made me feel like when I was little when I grew up I wanted to do something similar cause of the stories that you shared with me that you had done when you were growing up and you was young. You were in your twenties when you were—

	S:	Oh I was very—I was younger than that when I starts demonstrating. I’m tryin to think, was I in or out of school the first time I went to jail…

	D:	Can you describe that?



	S:	Cause I was a nurse at the hospital so then, yeah, I was out of school. Describe what?

	D:	Your first experience going to jail, what it was that kinda caused you—



	S:	I was taking a nurses aid class at the hospital there and just saw firsthand on what was going on. Cause they had a Black floor on one side of the hospital and all the other floors in the business part was on the other side. And I had been to a couple of mass meetings and somehow somebody mentioned something about the hospital—and also my father worked there too. And we were talkin about how the Black people had to go on this side to be waited on, and especially to be





admitted to the hospital, and whatever doctor is over there. Black doctors didn’t go on the other side and the Black patients didn’t go on that side. So after a mass meeting and we start talking about it, and I say, “When I go back to work, I’m gonna find out why, why did they have to be separate floors?” Knowing good and well I knew why, but I wanted to hear what somebody White had to say. So I talked to my head nurse and I was asking her, and she gave me one of the office look, and I told her, I said, “Well you know what, you in a dump and if you can’t explain it, why don’t you get somebody that can explain it to me?” So then, when I went back to a mass meeting, by this time a bus load of students that came from North to the South, and we were talking at a mass meeting, so they decided that if they get somebody from Washington would I talk to ‘em. Oh yeah that’s right on down my alley; let’s get it done. So then at that time they start sitting in the hospital. They would go in rooms and lay on the floor, lay on the bed, totally integrated so that when they come in, the police and all come in to take you out and to arrest you or whatever, they could see that something had been done, something wrong had been done. And that was like, we gon take it upon ourselves to do that. So, after that when they sent—I guess it was about two weeks before they sent somebody from—what was Janet Reno? What was she?

	H:	Attorney general, right?



	S:	Okay, it was somebody from her office who came down, it was two guys. They came down, came to the hospital, and by the time the hospital administrators got a hold to it, they had start doin the employees like that. They was takin





employees off of the floors, doin the cleanin, nurses and all that. And then put a Black one here, and a White on here, a Black one here, and a Black one there to show the government that it was integrated. And we standin out and around doors and stuff like, “No, you need to pull the records, and don’t pull yesterday and day-before-yesterday records.” These people should have been in the hospital at least three to five days. And that’s what started the whole boom why at the hospital. So before the voters act was signed, they had already integrated that because they was fully scared because they had too much government funds that was going into that. So then we did the restaurant and the theatre. I was one of the ones in the theatre line, and it was about twelve of us. So they gave us all twenty dollars apiece to stand in line so the lady at the window was sayin, “The manager be comin, but he’s comin from that way.” Pointing toward town, it’s the police was gonna come. So we stood there and stood there, and my sister was like, a person was between me and my sister, and she said, “If they come close to me.” A guy spit on her and she slapped the wall out of him. And I’m like, “Girl you can’t do that. What you might as well do, you might as well just go on and go home now before they put you in jail because if you can’ take it like you supposed—I said nonviolent girl! You can’t do it. You can’t do it.” So, she left cause she couldn’t do it, she couldn’t do it. But anyway they put us in jail and that experience was real scary. But all we did was we sang all night. And prayed all night. And was hoping that the next day they would come and get us. But it was about four or five days before they came to get us. Because they had to go to court and file a bill of habeas corpus.





	D:	Habeas corpus.



	S:	Isn’t that right?



	H:	Uh-huh.



	S:	Yeah, so it was issued there and they let us go, but I had I think it was thirty days that I couldn’t demonstrate or do nothin else again. So anyway, that’s Friday when I got out of jail I went home, and my grandfather was talkin to me and was telling me that I was so little and so brave, but if I thought that was the right thing for me to do, do it. So they had another demonstration on that Saturday, so I went anyway. And I got arrested again. This is a time when they was doing the water and dogs and all of that stuff. But you know some of the Black kids, they had stuff handed to them that they can trip somebody up or hit somebody in the head, you know, and you don’t think that they got anything because the firemans and the local Whites the ones who’s throwin rocks and doin all of that crazy stuff. But anyway, it end up being so many of us in jail until they didn’t have nowhere to put everybody. So the jail that I was in was a city jail, and I guess it must have been maybe twenty or twenty-five people in a four bed little thing. And it would be so hot and we used to just sing and pray all night and wait for somebody to come. The police was really scared cause they used to all use the bathroom and stuff and flush it, and get the water out the tank, and just pile it up. So when somebody come through there, they just dash it on em you know. Because they wouldn’t let nobody out to—I remember one time we actually prayed for it to rain and it did. Get some air. But they would dash them and I never will forget it was Smith, Lieutenant Smith or whatever his name, he was a Smith—he came walkin





down through there one night and they dash that water on there and he flew from the beginning of the cell to the front door. And all we could hardly, he was out there talkin about freedom, freedom! And we was sayin, we knew it would come in handy. He’s standin there with all that mess and stuff all in his face, all over.

Now that was funny. And the thing about it, on Monday, they couldn’t prove who did it because it was too many in there. And then by that time some people from Washington had came down again to get all of us out of there. Like we weren’t gonna stay. We had a mass meeting maybe two or three times a day. And I met this family from, I can’t remember if they was from Ohio or from Chicago, that sold everything they had and they got in the car, it was the husband and wife, two sons, and they just start ridin. And they stopped at the Koinonia Farm in Americus, Georgia. And that’s where they are today, and it was like a pecan farm, and he housed people, Black people. Right now they got homes and stuff out there. And they took care of those people. I mean they left everything they had. They was kind of wealthy people, but they found a better life in doin what they thought should have been right. Would have been right. And we used to go out there and just have fun and stuff.

	H:	Have you heard of Koinonia before? Did I tell you about it? D:	No, I’ve never heard about it.

	S:	Did you go when you was here?



	H:	Yeah, yeah. It’s kind of like a commune.



	S:	Com—that’s what I was gonna say, a commune.





	H:	Cause they were Marxists, and they were anti-racist Marxists, so they moved up north to Americus and Plaines, Georgia, and they got a little pecan farm. And it’s been like a human rights organization since the 1940s. And it’s right there in the country nowhere. But now they have students from up North, cause when we went, there was a guy there from Connecticut and there was somebody else up there from New York I believe. They were White too, young White students, who just was liberal, like commie people. And they came down, and it’s a commune where you don’t get paid, you get paid in food and then your housing—

	S:	Your housing, yeah.



	H:	So you just work, you do the agricultural work and you get food back—it’s like a co-op, kinda.

	D:	Right.



	H:	So yeah, as long as you put in work and you do work on the farm— S:	Some real nice people.

	H:	--you can live and get food. S:	They’re real nice people.

	H:	And they sell like pecan candies and stuff. S:	And cakes—

	H:	And cakes and stuff to raise funds. D:	Wow.

	S:	I remember one— H:	It’s a cool place.





	S:	--one of they son’s got killed. He had a harelip and they wouldn’t take him in the hospital. They had to take him to Albany and the same one—something happened at the end he got killed, and the funeral homes wouldn’t take him. So the Black funeral home took him and did what they had to do. But those were some very nice people and they still are to this day. I can imagine they gotta be past eighty. Now did you see them when you went?

	H:	No, I just saw the young people who were working on the farm.



	S:	Well that’s the way it was when the bus used to come down and bring a whole lot of them. Cause we had them staying in our house and somebody followed us to the top of the hill, pop the street going into McCoy Street. And we thought it was the Klan, and I still don’t know, cause I didn’t look back. I was scared and it was about three of four White girls and a guy and me. And we just ran in the house and went straight through to the back porch, went down the steps, and went under the house. My grandfather say, “I’ve been talking to people, you don’t have to do that.” “That you all just come on out and go on that back porch, and do what you gonna do, and get ready to go to bed.” Cause it was summer time and we had blankets and pillows and stuff, and the back porch was long, and we stayed right out there. He would let us cook and stuff in the backyard. I enjoyed most of it. My first experience in jail was the worst one. I was really scared.

	H:	But after that it was kinda—



	S:	Oh after that it was like, it was on. [Laughter] Cause I was tryin to tell y’all this all the time, not to follow me. And I’m just as educated as you are and as smart as you are too, so I’m just not gonna let you do that to me.





	D:	Do you remember what some of the major organizations were, or smaller organizations were that organized those mass meetings, or some of those protests?

	S:	Trying to remember the first one that we had, first mass meeting. First mass meeting was after a voters registration drive and we were going out getting people to vote, you know, some older people wouldn’t let their children go. And some kids was like our neighbors and stuff like, we going, you know. Just going do it anyway. But, I can’t remember so much an organization besides the Bethesda Baptist Church. But I remember that we were takin some people down, cause it was a whole nine of them, and we was walking to the court house and—I can’t remember what happened—and the boy got shot right on the courthouse step. And then after that, cause they wouldn’t let the ambulance and stuff go up in there to get them cause at this time, its Black, you have to call the funeral home to get somebody and take them to the hospital and stuff. And by the time they get there, he already dead, so what you going to do? So, he—lost my thought—oh, after that we start having regular mass meetings and was talking about different things. Different things would come up. For example, one was hire the—Black women were maids, and maids, and cooks, and daycares in the homes. All the White people were at the Manhattan Shirt Factory. That was one for an example. And once the voters’ rights was passed and they decide they was gonna integrate that before, before they did that, because they knew that they did have a chance. So they went on and did that factory to get people in there. So the people that was doing domestic work, now they got to go into the





shirt factory now. So what you gotta do is stay at home, and take care of your house, and your son, unless you get somebody private to come in and do that. And you gonna pay them more than fifteen dollars a week. And that’s the way a lot of stuff just started happening. I was in another place that was like that too. You didn’t have such a massive boom. They seem to just gradually come in and just to cooperate, and to do what they thought—you know you still had some male one’s now, but the majority of them just seemed like they just abandoned sin to make things work alright. And that only shifted us to other places like Alabama, Mississippi, and places like that. And I went on freedom tours from Americus to Africa. And then Uncle Harry, he picked up about eight of us one day, you might have read about that. It was about eight of us and told us, we can’t go home, we can’t go anywhere but to Atlanta. And we came into Atlanta and got clothes and stuff and he flew us to Africa. That was a good experience right there. Bellefontaine, oh that was good.

	D:	So where did you all go in Africa?



	S:	We went to Kenya, and most of the deep down desert-y places, and it was like scary, it was very scary. If you had never—I have never seen an African movie on the TV, much less than getting close to somebody who might jump out and grab you. But overall, I enjoyed it. And it was really something to, like you say, to tell my grandchildren about. And wish that now, like Saturday when you guys was talking, and I was thinking about that all the way home. Thinking about it all day yesterday. Now what is to happen to change its soul? I can live next door to you, and sleep in your bed, and eat your food, and you the same as me, or we





can live together. But something is gonna have to happen and I hope it’s not a war. And it’s gonna eventually just have to be done in order for us to be color blind, for the world to be as one. And that I don’t ever know what’ll happen, but I remember my granddaddy used to say that before the end of the world, it was gonna be some kooky, little, big-eyed men was gonna come here and was gonna take over. And it just about to happen, the only thing I see is the Chinese and I wanna say Japanese but I’m scared. And I sure don’t wanna say Russians. But I hope I’ll be living to see it, but if I don’t, y’all carry on. Get out there and find them, and do it, do it for the other children. I would love to see—well I’ve seen a lot that we fought for happen since then, so far as employees like teachers going to other schools, and the hospitals integrated, the shirt factory was, and the different, where you wouldn’t be able to get a secretarial job, you up front now.

And then you’re leading community activism, you’re on the for each club, and all these different things. You’re doing all of that now, where then, you probably couldn’t walk on that side of the street. But it’s better now, because I know in Americus, I can go to Americus and pass some of the older White people house, and they stop, “That you Lorene? Come on up here girl and talk to me.” They wanna talk and just be your friend forever, you have to just tell them you gotta go.

	D:	[Laughter]



	H:	[Laughter]



	S:	Yeah.



	H:	Where as in the past, it would have been a different story.





	S:	Yeah, and you know my mother worked at the hospital too, but—you know I forgot to tell you about this—they were looking for my daddy one day, this was when this guy got shot. And he worked in the operating room cleaning and stuff, and they were looking for him and he was back there on that operating table, drunk, sleep. Boy, if they were to miss him. We was down there sitting, they was sitting down there in the waiting room, just a pile of people from everywhere, just sitting down there trying to get it integrated. Waiting until these people do what they gonna do from Washington. That was really funny to me.

	H:	[Laughter] So when was the first time that you voted? S:	That I voted?

	H:	That you voted. Can you can remember?



	S:	Cause I’m trying to think of when in Americus—I don’t think that I did vote in Americus. Yes I did. I think it was in [19]60—Pam was baptized in—So that gotta be like maybe [19]67, [19]68.

	H:	Okay, uh-huh. And you voted in Americus? S:	Uh-huh.

	H:	Who you vote for?



	S:	Well, you only had one or two Blacks that was running for something anyway, so of course they all won because there was too many Black people that hurdled in there on that one time. You know, cause I remember the day’s time, I know they registered more than a hundred people. And then yet when I got back there in line and they asked, “Weren’t you down here yesterday?” And I’m saying, “Yeah.” “But did you read this book?” “No. I did not read the book.” “But you was





here cause you was on the cast.” “Yes, I was here when I was on the cast , but I did not read this book in order to fill out this”—I mean you had to read it, sit there and read it in order to sign this paper to become a registered voter. So by the time our line got done with our big mouths up there wanting to fight and do everything else, knowing you couldn’t, by the time they got to the end of the line in the next few days they had took that book away. Yeah, definitely, they had that book there.

	H:	So, if you can talk about maybe how you moved from Americus to Rochester and just—when did that happen and why did that happen?

	S:	It happened because I was—we were gonna wait for one thing to get married and to go to school. I was going to nursing school at the University of Rochester and had a family, that’s how I end up there.

	H:	And when you got married, what did my grandfather do?



	S:	He worked for Eastman Kodak Company, developing company, engineering. H:	And that that was in the [19]60s when he moved up there?

	S:	In the late [19]60s.



	H:	So, did you move up to Rochester because there were better opportunities in Rochester than being in Americus.

	S:	Yes, for jobs.



	H:	Cause I always wondered, how y’all choose Rochester of all the places to move to?

	S:	A lot of people used to leave Americus on—that bus used to go—they call it the tramp bus. And it used to go once a year, take you do to the apple picking and





cherries and all that stuff. And that’s how a lot of Black people ended up in Rochester. Cause you go out on that farm first, Albion and places like that, you got there first and then you just migrate from country over to Rochester.

	H:	So y’all be out there working on the— S:	Not y’all.

	H:	I’m sorry, not y’all, they would be out there working in the apple orchards and stuff, and then they would just stick around and—

	S:	Uh-huh, stay out there in those little—what you call it? H:	Villages. Out there, that’s what I would call them.

	S:	And stay out there and on the weekend. It was just like being entrapped, enslaved cause all they did was drink, and fight, and act crazy, and being ready to get back out there in that field when Monday came. Cause most of us out there was Blacks and Mexicans.

	H:	Even back then there was Mexicans? S:	Yeah.

	H:	Okay, okay.



	S:	Well you know Mexicans were here all before our time and we was scared of them. Didn’t know who they were and where they come from. But they were coming here then on bicycles and stuff to find a place to land so they can find some work.

	H:	So in Rochester, I know, I was born up there and that’s where mama and they grew up there, in Rochester area. Essentially, were schools integrated in Rochester?





	S:	Yeah.



	H:	What was that like?



	S:	The schools were integrated by neighborhoods, but what they did were, where we were living, they would come in and get the better students and integrate them by bus to the suburban schools. They had to have that ratio in there, they had to have it, but they would get the better kids out of the Black neighborhood schools and put them in other schools.

	H:	Okay, see cause that’s what I remember about New York is that they had the bussing, bus kids out to get them into—

	S:	Yeah, that’s why they did that, that’s why they bussed them out.



	H:	I know mama’s told me some stories about being bussed out there and what that was like.

	S:	And they wouldn’t let them stay either cause I went—the school from where we lived was less than half a block. I could sit on the sidewalk and watch them go in the door. But they couldn’t stay; they had to go.

	H:	They had to be bussed out to a different school.



	S:	Now I tell you something else in Rochester, when I was going to nursing school and got out to start work, you had to be Republican in order to get a state job.

	H:	Really? And they made that known?



S:  Yes, yes they did. Yes they did. Cause I stayed Republican till I started working maybe a year and I changed it. Even if that means change jobs, cause nobody shouldn’t have to tell you what party that you would have to be.

H:   But that was kind of how you had to get in—





	S:	Yeah, that was the way you had to do it.



H:  --Political power, yeah. It’s so different thinking about political power in Upstate New York compared to how political power was down in Americus, in the South especially. The differences are just so drastic.

	S:	And look at how America is being run now, the school board, the Bank of Commerce, everything is ran by Black, just like Atlanta is ran by Black, but then you’re governed by all that other stuff behind you.

	D:	You also went to—you did a lot of work in Americus. You went to Mississippi you said?

	S:	Mississippi. I went to Albany, Georgia. I think we went to Florida went to integrate the swimming pool. It was the same thing in Albany, integrate the swimming pool.

	D:	Do you know what city? That was in St. Augustine— S:	That was where it was.

	D:	St. Augustine, okay.



	S:	That’s what started the civil rioting, that swimming pool.



	D:	1964 was it? Could you talk a little bit about that, cause we have a lot of people around here that were actually there at that time.

	S:	Really? Well, we got there right after it had happened. That was the first of them taking them to jail, I know, I can remember that. And that’s what started a hot war down there. Because then people was saying, “I met a White girl that was down there too.” And she was talking to Andrew Young and she had to do some study cause the just couldn’t understand why that had to be. And he actually had to get that girl and go to St. Augustine with her and they had to go to some





meetings and she was told by the Whites exactly what happened and the way it was gonna be. And that started more people from Washington and Upstate, up North, coming down and getting together and doing a whole lot of stuff.

D:  Yeah, that’s what you were reading in the archives, with the alligator and the— yeah.

H:  Cause you know, they put an alligator in the pool— S:  Pool.

	H:	--when the Black folks was trying to integrate it and they also put acid in the pool too. And it couldn’t believe it when I read they threw an alligator in there. [Laughter] That’s some way to break up an integration sit-in.

	S:	Somebody was telling me just last week, we was talking about New Orleans and I was saying about how you felt about New Orleans and how things still were and hasn’t changed and all. And this guy was saying, “Well I just hope that it soon become a different.” I said, “I know it because my baby is gonna have a fit if it don’t. He feels like if he ain’t doing nothing to help, and he see the help coming, then he feels like he’s not doing anything.” He said, “Does he know about when the train came around and the train fell over in that bayou and killed all them people. They went to try to get some of them people and the alligator had ate them up. They didn’t even try to get them.” So that was back in the [19]40s and [19]50s. I didn’t even remember. Didn’t even know a thing about it until you told me that.

	H:	Yeah, they’d looked it up in the history.





	S:	Yeah, that’s what he told me. I said, [inaudible 55:43] I don’t know if that’s even true or not.

	H:	That’s what I do. I don’t dig deep. [Laughter] I’m not the archeologist. [Laughter] D:	But from St. Augustine, y’all went to Mississippi and you stayed—

	S:	From Mississippi we came back up to Georgia: Albany and Americus. D:	You got to see Mrs. Fannie Lou Hamer.

	S:	Yeah, yeah. We stayed some nights at her place. And, matter of fact, we was there in the mass meeting in her yard one night and they came down through— they was standing up higher than we were down—and I don’t know how, they was just, just plucked all the men, all you could see was white in the eyes. And we started singing and stuff and they started shooting after that. I had gunpowder would across my chest; I guess it was from a shotgun blast. But when I went down there, and I just swear I’m dead. And just go on and lay there until they get through, but it was terrible. In places like Alabama, Alabama came in just like Georgia did. It was a rough time right there. But then it was like you never heard a real whole, whole lot about bad stuff there. Mississippi was terrible.

	H:	Florida was terrible like Mississippi too. S:	Yeah, some parts of Florida was terrible.

	H:	Cause I know, it’s funny, thinking about integration how you said that, what you think Jay? I think it’s kinda true, cause you don’t really hear during that integration period, you hear most awful stories happen in Mississippi and happen in Florida. Things happen in Georgia, in Alabama, but it seems like I know in Birmingham you had the bombing, but it seems like—I have to read more about





the history—but it seems like things weren’t, they were bad, but things were worse in Mississippi and Florida, than in Alabama and Georgia. What you think?

	D:	It could be, I feel like different cities were different too cause when you hear people talk about Gainesville, they say Gainesville wasn’t nearly as bad as other places around Florida. I think a lot of that was cause of the university students—

	S:	—the students and it’s too damn crowded. D:	[Laughter]

	H:	I think the hot weather, people go crazy too. That why Mississippi and Florida were the worst; cause it gets hot.

	S:	But you know what, my grandfather was, we were sitting out talking one day and my grandfather’s brother-in-law had gotten a hold to this album that “I Have a Dream.” And he had wrapped it in some stuff and brought it in the house, and they closed the windows, and closed the doors, and turned it on while somebody guarding the front door, and had me up in there, guarding front door while we listened to “I Have a Dream.” I said, “Do you know when they did the ‘I Have a Dream’ speech where I was? In jail!” And they put the voice thing out, we could hear it, but we couldn’t see it. And I want to get to hear it, I wanna hear it all, and I wanna hear and sit. They were just so scared they did not know what to do. I said, “You know what, I’ll stand here and guard the door cause we gon hear this this day.” My granddaddy say, “Let me tell you something, you sit down, you just so brave with that little old mouth there, I don’t know if we should listen to you, or we just gonna get in some more trouble.”

	H:	[Laughter]





	D:	[Laughter]



	S:	I said, “Daddy, the war has been just about won, we got this victory right here so you might as well open those windows back up and open the door. And ain’t nobody come here no way, but the insurance man. And he act like he don’t like it we can stuff him under the house.” See yo mouth, see yo mouth.

	H:	That’s where I got it from?



	S:	That what my granddaddy told me, but then they told me when I went to go on the tour, they didn’t want me to go. They couldn’t decide. Yo mama was a baby. They couldn’t decide whether I should go and all this stuff. My granddaddy said, “You going to go. You’re a brave one, somebody got to do it, you going to go.”

	H:	So he kept the kids while you were gone?



	S:	Yeah, I had two aunts there and they came into the house. And as a matter of fact, I was the only one. But the ones next door, that lady had so many children, she had nine boys and I think two girls. They weren’t scared of anything. As a matter of fact, two of them live on that farm out there. They were always into something, and they do a lot of commentaries on BB—is it BB, thirty-one? AIB?

	H:	What you mean?



	S:	It’s a channel on TV. H:	It’s that the—

	S:	Like the community.



	H:	The religion channel? Or the community service channel, like the Public Access TV?

	S:	Yeah, lots, you can also see a lot of demonstrations, you can see a lot of—





	D:	PBS?



	S:	—Yeah, PBS, that’s what it is. Yeah you can see a lot of those kind of things going on out there.

	H:	So that do you think about—you spoke on it a little bit, but I wanna hear more about what do you think about the way things are now and moving forward based off of your life and what you’ve experienced with civil rights and how you see things going now? What do you think that should happen now? And what should we be doing now?

	S:	Well from the early [19]60s as far back as I can remember until now, I can see a lot of changes, but I can also see a lot that has to be done. I think that some of the older ones are gonna have to just grab somebody’s hand and just lead them down that road to let them know, even if it takes having a mass meeting, and getting together, and maybe state to state. It’s getting as many together and what you think together, get everybody’s opinion on what’s going on and try to—it will never be like it should be because it never has been a good example of what it should be. And what I think has to happen is, and I hope it’s not never a war, another war, cause we don’t know what’s gonna happen. But I think that there should be more prayer, there should be more getting together in unity, and I think a lot of it’s gotta start up there at the government. The government has a lot to do in order to soothe the mind of its people. Better skilled jobs, people with better skills, and working and staying together.

	H:	But Obama the president though. We arrived didn’t we?





	S:	You don’t leave Obama alone. When he was running for president you was running out there trying to get people, get them to [inaudible: 01:03:33]

	D:	It’s about 1:50, I don’t know if you wanna—



	H:	Okay, anything else, any last words you wanna say?



	S:	I enjoyed the question period. I was gonna say something but you just start laughing and won’t stop so, I don’t want you to make me sick with that. I’ve had fun with it and I went through some rough time. And like I was telling you the other night, if it hadn’t been for my grandfather having to have worked on that farm and being transferred to work in—once they moved to Americus on that farm—we probably would have suffered more than what we did. We didn’t have to wait to get some flour, and meal, and some collard greens, or whatever, because he had already had access already to that. Plus, in Plains they had a farm, that side, my granddaddy side, sisters and brothers and stuff, and that’s where they did the cows and the pigs and all that kind of thing. And at the end of the year they would always kill the hog or the cow. And that’s how they were able to save on meats and stuff. Put them in cool storage and all that. And now we scared to eat something out of cold storage, but that’s the best thing for you.

Without all these darn chemicals.



	H:	Okay, well thank you, thank you Ms. Smith for coming and giving us this interview. Is that how I end it?

	D:	Yeah, that’s how you end it. H:	Okay, well thank you.

[End of interview]











	Transcribed by:	Susan Atkinson, February 2, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, April 18, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019