AAHP 413; Thomas; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 413 Esther Hill Thomas African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on June 26, 2016 47 minutes | 28 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 413

Interviewee: Esther Hill Thomas Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: June 26, 2016



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida at the Douglass High School Reunion on June 26, 2016 at the High Springs Civics Center. I have the honor today of speaking with Ms.

Esther Hill Thomas, a graduate of Douglass High School. She’ll let us know which class in just a moment. Mrs. Thomas, thank you very much for agreeing to the interview.

	T:	Okay, this was the class in 1948. That was my last year at Douglass. But I graduated the following year at Alachua County Training School.

	W:	Okay good, so we can talk about both of those. Thank you again for the interview Ms. Thomas. When and where were you born?

	T:	I was born in High Springs, Florida, October 5th, 1930. W:	Were you born at home?

	T:	In my grandparent’s home. W:	Okay, and where was that?

	T:	About a half a mile from where we were living. In that day, you went home to momma to give birth and then you’d go back to your house.

	W:	Now, were you delivered by a doctor? Was it a midwife? Was it family? T:	Midwife.

	W:	Do you happen to know—were you ever told who the midwife was? T:	The midwife was old. I don’t remember.

	W:	Who were your parents?





	T:	My parents was: my mother, Victoria Wyndham. My dad, Mac Hill. And then they married, and she was Victoria Wyndham-Hill.

	W:	How did they come to be in Alachua County?



	T:	My mother was born in this area. The place wasn’t High Spring then, but this is the third name for High Spring.

	W:	Oh really? I was unaware of that. Do you recall what the previous names were? T:	I don’t know.

	W:	Okay, but ultimately, this place is called High Springs?



	T:	Right. And they all came from South Carolina. Both great-grandparents. W:	Who were your mother’s parents?

	T:	Wyndham. The last name was Wyndham. And I think his first name was James.



My granddaddy said when they settled to this area, they were the first Black family allowed to settle in this area.

	W:	Allowed to settle in this area?



	T:	Allowed. We had to get permission.



	W:	So that’s something to explore a little bit. From the city officials? From the White people in the area? Was it—

	T:	—it was the White people. I don’t know what authority they had other than just being White.

	W:	How about your dad’s people? What were his mom and dad’s name?



	T:	My dad’s people, I just heard about his parents, not his great-grandparents, and that was Bob Hill and Ada Hill. But as I understand it, Bob Hill, when he met Grandma, she was a Hampton and then later on they married. Grandad had





three kids, his wife had died. Grandmomma had one child. I don’t know if there was a father in there but then they married, and they ended up with a family of 13.

W:  Hmm. Families were always bigger back then, weren’t they? T:  Yes.

	W:	Now for you and your immediate family, did you have a lot of brothers and sisters?

	T:	No, just one brother.



	W:	Okay, and what was his name?



	T:	Maxie Hill. He was a graduate of A&M, and he got killed in a car wreck. This was on the day when President Kennedy was being buried. He was the principal of a school down in Crystal River at the time. On his way back to work that Monday, he lost control of a new car, and that was it.

	W:	I’m very sorry.



	T:	Yeah. But my dad married later on and I had three sisters, one brother to that union.

	W:	Would you mind saying who your brothers and sisters are?



	T:	Ruthie Williams Moore, she’s been to all of his [inaudible 4:29]. Let’s see, Maxine Woodside, Dr. Maxine Woodside. She lives in Tampa. And Brenda, sister Brenda James lives in High Springs across the river. My brother died, he was a pastor of a church and, oh I can’t think of the name—. Anyway about three or four years ago he died.

	W:	I’m very sorry for your loss. Do you have children?





	T:	Yes, two.



	W:	Okay, and what are their names?



	T:	Reshae Chandler; he was here with me last night. And John Calvin Thomas III in North Carolina.

	W:	You had a big family in that picture last night. I mean it filled the whole frame [Laughter]

	T:	Oh my family goes on and on. Because both parents were raise up here in High Springs, so that’s understandable.

	W:	Oh, so this is the nest [Laughter] T:	Yes.

	W:	Now, are you married?



	T:	Divorced. [inaudible 5:35] My husband was a graduate of A&M, in P.E. He got killed in a car wreck just coming back from a game up here.

	W:	Oh my gosh.



	T:	This was a night he had planned to stay home, but because of the fact whoever was scheduled to call the game couldn’t make it, they called him and he came and did the game.

	W:	So, your family has strong ties to A&M? Are you an A&M graduate as well? T:	Yes, yes. Almost everybody that graduated, graduated from A&M.

	W:	Okay, I’d like to talk to you about that then ‘cause I have a research interest in that. My Master’s thesis dealt with the lunch counter sit-ins that took place in 1960 in Tallahassee.





	T:	Oh yeah. My brother-in-law of the sister I was talking about, he was doing a lot of cooking, going in and out. He’s a graduate there, very strong alumni.

	W:	Okay [Laughter] Well, let’s talk about, please, your first memory of formal education. Where did that take place? I guess that would have been First Grade at Douglass High School.

	T:	Yes, first grade.



	W:	Who was the teacher, and what was going to first grade like for you?



	T:	My first grade teacher was Mrs. Ethelder Henry. One or two years later, she married: Ethelder Henry-Caffey. And then, she taught me again in middle high school. So in little country schools, you could be teaching here at this level and another level, all in the same year.

	W:	Mmhm. On a day going to school, what was that like for you? Did you wake up early? Did you have chores when you got home? Did you ride a bus? How did a school day work when you first started?

	T:	Um, we had no busses in that day, not for us. We walked to school. We went to school on time. And, I had walked to school like on the dirt road where the cars or wagons go, you got a little rut. If you step on the edge of it, you can hear the cracking from the ice, and we did things like put hog lard on our legs, that was our lotion. And sometimes it was our health care.

	W:	Hog lard?



	T:	Hog lard. My daddy raised hog.



	W:	Mmhm. What other kind of animals were raised at home?





	T:	We had cows, we had beef cattle, we had milk cattle. Not a lot, but I would guess about five or six. A normal amount.

	W:	Did you have mules or horses? T:	We had a mule and a horse, yes.

	W:	Mmhm. So this was a working farm. It produced the food, everything for the home?

	T:	Right. My dad worked in the railroad shop. But momma ran the farm with my brother and I, and later on they adopted my cousin. He came to live with us, and the boys kind of ran the farm along with Mom. I had to do all the housework, like rubbing clothes. Rub-board, put them in the pot, boil them.

	W:	I know all about that.



	T:	Take them out, wash them, rinse them, starch them, hang them on the line. W:	Did you use the iron or you just let ‘em blow dry in the wind?

	T:	Oh, they dried on the line, but those that were starched, you had to sprinkle them down when you get ready to iron. And, during the summer, trying to heat your irons in front of a fireplace was not a lot of fun. And then we had a pot, a coal pot. You put your irons in there to heat. But finally, we got rich and momma bought a gas iron. That was fine, except if you were ironing up in the sleeve, that little flame that was coming out the side would burn your clothes.

	W:	So you’d have to be careful about that. T:	Yes.

	W:	What kind of—you mentioned the animals—what type of produce, or vegetables and fruits, did you grow on your farm?





	T:	We grew, naturally, a lot of corn. Some for eating then and some you dried out and feed it to the hogs and the cows. Also, on a Saturday morning, my dad had a mill. You put the dried ears of corn through there. As you twist, the corn would come out. You take that to the mill, they grind it first. You have—you get what they call harmony—the thick grits. You grind it some more for the thinner grits.

You grind it more for meal. We didn’t have to buy very many things. We raised everything.

	W:	So very self-sufficient. T:	Right.

	W:	Was it a multi-generational home? Did the grandparents also live with you all, or did they have a separate place?

	T:	No, the grandparents had a separate place. The farm where we lived was their property—or this is where they settled—and they finally built this house. But, over time, somebody didn’t pay tax or something, and mom and dad got a farm loan and was able to recover tax-wise, and they went from there. Daddy tore down the old house and built a new house instead, salvaging the old lumber. And the way we lived until our house was built, that was a hack house, where you had to keep the [inaudible 11:15] in. You can’t afford for the rain to leak on that. So, that was the big part of the house and Dad built a little room on the back with a kitchen and a little room on the side for both of our beds. And we could not say our prayers on the side of the bed. There was no room. You had to say your prayers before you come out of what we call the house, and we jumped on the foot of the





bed to get into the bed. And when Dad got the house built, he had to take the sides off the walls to get the beds out. It was just that small.

	W:	Compared to where we are here in Downtown High Springs at the Civics Center, where was your family home, the farm, located?

	T:	They call it the first farm outside of city limits. Where there’s a shopping plaza, you could go to the top of the hill, turn right, and then come up. That was the entrance of sixty acres, and our grandparents lived down the hill in a little house that I think grandpa built.

	W:	I would like to go back to that rut in the road on the way to school when you walked. How far did you have to walk to get to school?

	T:	I think it was about a mile, little more than a mile. W:	Rain or shine, whatever the weather was.

	T:	Yes. Right.



	W:	When you got there, did you have to collect wood for the stove, or was that all kind of done by the teacher?

	T:	I think the boys generally got the wood in the day before, but I know we had the old iron heaters.

	W:	Potbelly stove kind of thing? T:	Yes, yes.

	W:	Now you mentioned that there wasn’t a bus for us—so would you actually see the White kids get picked up to go to school on a bus? Or was there a different route?





	T:	No, I’m not too familiar with the busses there, but the Black kids that lived on that end of town—they walked through town to Douglass. And sometimes they were tortured, called the “N” word, and all that kind of stuff. But from where we lived, we didn’t have to pass anything but the neighborhood people.

	W:	You were already on the east side? T:	Right, already over here.

	W:	Now, what about the kids that lived in Bland? Did they go—that was a different school for them?

	T:	Yeah, Bland, I think they went to Alachua. Yeah, I think that’s where they went.



	W:	So, what was Douglass like for you as a Elementary student? I know as you get older and you would progress in grades, you get more responsibility, more respect, the juniors and seniors and everything. But, what was it like being a elementary school student? What kind of things did you do?

	T:	Well, we had the basic reading, writing, arithmetic, and we had assignments to do at home—and that wasn’t very easy with lamp lights. That’s all we had.

Sometimes, there were three lamps on our table. But, if we weren’t getting out homework, we had to act like it. So, even in the day of comic books—and sometimes my brother would slip one in or somebody give him one—he had to put that in the, I don’t know what kind of book that was. What history—some book that was pretty big, he put it in there. But if Momma caught up with you, you’d be in big trouble. We had to devote time to study and do our homework, chores and that.





	W:	So, when you came home, did you do chores first and then your homework? Or did you do your homework first and then your chores? Or—

	T:	We had to do our chores first, yes.



	W:	That’s why you were doing your homework by lamplight. T:	Right.

	W:	Now, when you say lamp, I think I know what you’re talking about, but could you describe—

	T:	Oil lamp, kerosene.



	W:	Okay, so a kerosene lamp. T:	Right.

	W:	And just one of them?



	T:	Yeah, one, but sometimes, if Mom and Dad was watching the radio, we could have all of the lamps. And when I say watching radio, I mean that, the big [inaudible 15:31] they sit there. You look right in to the radio and imagined those people. Like Amos and Andy—when they went on television—they had changed because they were White, but they had Black voices. [Laughter]

	W:	What other kind of radio shows did your parents listen to? And did you all listen to that as a family?

	T:	As a family, yeah.



	W:	What kind of shows did you listen to?



	T:	The Lone Ranger—I think that was Sunday evening. I already said Amos and Andy, Pearl Bailey sang. In fact, we had one or two of her records. That was the… [19]78 or whatever it was.





	W:	Big records?



	T:	Big records. And later on, after we got electricity, I made flower pots out of the records—some of them. And I did keep one or two of them, yes. We would do things like, this time of year, you go out with a tobacco sled and harvest peanuts. And you’d get all these big vines, you’d bring them in and sit under the tree and pick the peanuts off, boil them in the wash pot. And then, for our amusement, we’d sit around and eat peanuts and play games. “Jack and the Boy”, I think it was called. If I’ve got five peanuts in my hand, and if you guess ten, then you have to give me five to make it ten. But if you guessed three and I got five, I got to give you some to reduce it. It’s like addition, subtraction; educational and filling at the same time.

	W:	Did you also have a family with—where you all played musical instruments, or you sang, or you did plays or skits at home?

	T:	Yeah, my brother played the saxophone, and this was around tenth or eleventh grade. And my cousin played the clarinet, and Dad wanted me to take music.

Piano music. I think it was twenty-five cents a class. But after about the third time, I begged him to let me stop. I didn’t see any music in me. And we would just sit around and talk about facts and stuff, and find a way to just have fun. It’s a limited amount of time. We’d go to bed at a certain time, you get up at a certain time. And there was no such thing as eating a bowl of cereal in the morning. Grits, bacon, eggs, those kind of things. And when you go in the kitchen to get a drink of water early in the morning, and the dipper is frozen, you know you in trouble.





	W:	Cold morning. T:	Yes.

	W:	Did you ever see movies or go into town somewhere for entertainment?



	T:	We came downtown on Saturday evening to this same Priest Theatre that’s in our precinct now.

	W:	What was it like going to the Priest Theatre back then?



	T:	Exceptional on the outside. This is where the Blacks went. Then you go up the steps, and up there that little [inaudible 18:54], whatever it was, that’s where we were. But I suppose after throwing so much stuff down on them, peanuts, popcorn, they finally moved the steps on the inside, but we were still segregated. But now, everybody goes to the same place. Excuse me—ten cents.

	W:	Ten cents!



	T:	I don’t care what time you go in, afternoon until it closed if you want to. Ten cents.

	W:	Did they show double features, or was it just one movie, or how did that work? T:	One.

	W:	So what was Douglass like for you as a high school student?



T:   Okay, I liked high school. We didn’t go into junior high and then high school. Up to elementary, you’d enter high school. And sometimes there were two different grades. Like my brother was a year and eleven months older than I am, but we had other classes together because you’d only have about six kids in one class, and they were sent to another. They’d all go together. So you may be advanced





in one year, and you might be under in the other year. They did what they had to do.

	W:	Did you have a favorite activity in high school? Or were you more—I’m sure you had your books, of course—but were you more… Since you weren’t in music, were you in drama—

	T:	Sports.



	W:	Sports, okay.



	T:	Basketball.



	W:	Okay, basketball.



	T:	I won All-Conference my senior year. I was at Alachua Training School then, but I won All-Conference and they gave me a little gold football. I reckon they didn’t have a basketball.

	W:	And was it the same rules of basketball, like we have now or was it a little bit different?

	T:	Very similar. But one thing very different with girls, there was a—we played half court. But now, you play whole court. And they had to limit the dribble—like when you catch the ball, you can do the one-two. Anything over that, you’re running.

That’s very similar now.



	W:	Would you have to pass the ball? T:	Yes.

	W:	Two steps and you gotta pass it. T:	Yes.





W:  Okay, so you really had to coordinate your movements with your teammates, ‘cause I can imagine that would be a lot harder if that was the way you had to play basketball today.

T:  And playing on a clay court. W:  Oh, clay!

T:  You know in winter, no warm up. We did have a suit—those bloomer-like pants and a top that covered almost everything. And on the nights when it was really cold, you had the tall drum with wood in it on one corner. That was to keep you warm.

W:   During the game?



	T:	Yeah, and sometimes you could not see the ball through the smoke and all that. W:	[Laughter] So who were the other good players with you?

	T:	Pansy Parker. She’s been here also. She was really good. And another young lady—she’s in Miami now. I don’t think—I know we didn’t have two teams. And we had to practice against the boys. So that made us a little rougher, at least. And we had a good team. And the shoes that we wore were the high-top sneakers.

	W:	The Chuck Taylors?



	T:	I think something like that. And you’d polish it with the white shoe polish. And with my complexion, about half the time my whole leg was white.

	W:	[Laughter] Who was your coach?



	T:	Um, the principal of the school was the coach at one time. W:	Both Douglass and at ACT?





	T:	No just here, because ACT and Douglass were completely different.



	W:	How did you end up going to ACT? Why didn’t you end up finishing here at Douglass?

	T:	The reason I went to ACT was—I went to a back-to-school party my upcoming senior year, and we had to leave home together and we had to come back together. But we had a waiting spot, and I was a quiet little girl who didn’t like boys. But somehow, I slipped away from the party with my little boyfriend, and in slipping away we had a little get-together, knowing nothing about the birds and the bees. So you know what happened there.

	W:	You found out eventually [Laughter]



	T:	And my son was born the Friday that I was scheduled to graduate from high school. So, I really didn’t wanna go back to school the next year. And the kids that were a grade behind me—there was another girl that the same thing happened to. And then my cousins had a Chevrolet. The sisters and brothers, they would drive it down every day, because Alachua had more to offer than here. So with them going down—and they were related to my momma—she arranged for me to go down with them. And that’s where I did my senior year, Alachua.

	W:	Is that interesting to you, how society has changed so much? That if that had happened today, it wouldn’t have made a difference at all. But it was a big deal for you, wasn’t it?

	T:	Yes. I also got put out of the church. Because you get pregnant out of wedlock in that day—and I don’t know what happened to the boy, but the girls was put out of





the church. And after—then you could come back—a deposit would be accepted back. I was in the Baptist Church then, because when I was converted I wanted to go in the church where my dad was. And my brother stayed at the church with Mom. We were born Methodist, but I decided I wanted to be baptized down in the water where we were today. I stayed there for a few years, and then I asked Mom and Dad if I could go back to my church. They had already discussed it and they saw already—I had faced reality that I really didn’t wanna stay in the Baptist church. But, that’s what we did.

	W:	So now, you’re a young mother. T:	Old mother.

	W:	No, I meant at the time— T:	—Oh yes. Yes, right.

	W:	So, when you got to ACT, what was that like for you, being a mom and a student?

	T:	Out of a class of thirty-six, there were five mothers in that class, yes. And I could of gone back to the school, but they were so mean. I didn’t wanna have to go to school with the kids that were behind me. So I got threw back, having to wash diapers when I get home, get the lesson out, and I was pretty good at basketball. But Mrs. Mebane was my Math teacher—that was the wife of the principal. She would give me homework, and then the next day she’d say, “Well Hill, you played a great game last night. You got my lesson?” She didn’t excuse you just because she thought you did good the night before. That didn’t work for her. So





consequently I’d get a B—a B math student. There was only one A student in her class. I was so proud of that B.

	W:	So she was a “no joke around” kind of person.



	T:	Yes sir. Most of my teachers were that way, but she was very strict, and I thank her today.

	W:	What do you think was the most important lesson that you learned, as a student at ACT?

	T:	I reckon, it’s not—I reckon it’s mainly not what you know. You think you can get away with stuff, because you can play your game. But something—preparation gotta go along with that. Just because you good—or I wasn’t as good as I thought I was—that does not excuse you. But in the past, I had been kind of passed over, if the teachers kind of liked me—but that’s not good. But, we don’t see that right then. And I made a dress for the prom—that’s another thing I just thought about. White [inaudible 27:29]. The whole thing cost me about two dollars and something. The prom was that Friday night. I cut the bottom off that dress Saturday morning and made what we called a bolero, ‘cause the dress was sleeveless, and you can’t wear that back then. A little jacket type thing. And I wore that for graduation that Sunday. So, needless to say, I was already poor. To have a child out of wedlock—and the guy has gone his way.

	W:	So, you all did not get together. That was just like a—the get-together was the get-together.

	T:	Yes. I got a blood test and all that. We were supposed to get married, ‘cause in that day, they really frowned on you having a child out of wedlock. And I thank





God today that—I don’t know what happened—but I’m thankful we didn’t get married. He was rotten to the core. But, like I told my son, I wasn’t raped. I was a willing character, but I paid for it. I’ve used this true story to tell several girls—and a few White, some Black—because you fall, you don’t have to stay there. Brace yourself up and go again, but don’t do that same dumb thing over again.

	W:	Mmhm. So, you graduated. You eventually end up at Florida A&M University with a son, being a young mother—

	T:	—No, I didn’t go—



	W:	Oh, you didn’t go right away?



	T:		No, I didn’t go to college at all. I taught—I took a course in recreation, because I worked for the state in P.E. and recreation. And I reckoned I needed something. But everything I’ve done is from God. I like to say I was a visual merchandiser— decorated back in the day when they had all the windows and stuff. I was the buyer for my department and I didn’t have a limit. I reckon by the old master found out he could trust me. So, he just said, “Whatever you need, you just buy it.”

	W:	So it was your experience then that carried you through— T:	—Right—

	W:	—did you ever go back for certifications, or things like that? Or was it just basically the school of hard knocks?

	T:	We had classes occasionally in Charlotte. They sent me up there one or two times. I enjoyed, you know, the trip—like meeting other people in that same field. If you saw something you really want—like animated windows—that was the





most expensive thing to buy. I had money to spend, but I just used a purchase order. And just buy—if I thought something would really enhance the area or sell merchandise, all I had to do was just buy it.

	W:	Now please remind me, what was the name of the business you were a buyer for?

	T:	Belk.



	W:	For Belk?



	T:	It was Belk Lindsey in Florida. But everything now is just Belk or Belk-Gallup. But they in Florida.

	W:	They were from Charlotte originally?



	T:	From Charlotte, mmhm. The headquarters I think still is Charlotte. W:	So, how did you begin to work for Belks here in High Springs?

	T:	Okay, Belks in Gainesville—I had worked for the state for five and a half years, and I quit there.

	W:	What were you doing when you worked for the state? T:	P.E., recreation.

	W:	Okay.



	T:	But when I went to work for Belk, they were getting ready to open the new store on Main Street, moving out from downtown. And they ran an ad in the paper— they needed somebody to do alterations. And I knew I could sew, so I thought, “I think I’ll apply for this.” But when I got there, they said that they didn’t have an opening. I still say they didn’t have an opening for my color. But the lady said, “Well, all we got for opening is a maid’s job.” I said, “I’ll take it.” I think I really





shocked her. To me, you don’t get too high up to clean. So, I took the job cleaning commodes, making boxes, picking up strings, any little odd and end. So naturally when—after the grand opening came Christmas—and after then, business died, so they had to lay some people off. And I was one of those to be laid off. But a friend of mine—she was quitting because that was her second job, and she recommended me for the job. So, I went back as a maid. That was a White lady working the [inaudible 32:21]. For some reason she had to quit, and she said that she was gonna recommend me for the job. So I said, “Well, you reckon I can do it?” All you had to need to do was know either your twelve-time tables or your six-times, ‘cause nearly everything was bought by either dozen or half-dozen. So, that was really a simple job. I worked that for a long time and the display guy—a White guy—I used to hang around with him, watching what he did, because I was interested in sewing. And he asked me one day to pin fabric on a mannequin. And I did such a good job he say, “Say, you know you could do this.” I said, “Really?” So I got invited, and then he wanted me to help him sometimes making signs. The old-fashioned underwood, whatever the sign was made of—about this big. You would punch out each number. You punch with this arm [inaudible 33:20]. And if you misspelled something, it’s your fault. If you give me a requisition with a word misspelled, that’s alright, but I can’t print it misspelled. So, you keep a dictionary handy for that. But anyway, I made the signs, and then he was moving on to Jacksonville. And he told me he was gonna recommend me for the job. I said, “You think I can do it?” He said, “I’m sure you can!” And then he say he went and talked to the boss. He asked me, “Do you





think you can do it?” I say, “I don’t know, just give me a chance, and then you tell me if I can do it.” And that’s the way I got started in that.

	W:	Mmhm. Now what—what basic time was this? Was this mid [19]50s or? T:	Uh, [19]60s.

	W:	Okay, early [19]60s? T:	Early [19]60s, yes.

	W:	Okay. Now, so did you get to see any of the… um… I’ll call it—I’ll say unrest, but not really unrest. The things that started with the movement with Black people wanting to be served Downtown, to sit at the lunch counters. Did you see any of that take place?

	T:	Okay, yes. I was in Gainesville at that time. Woo-, Wood-, whatever that dime store was—

	W:	—Woolworth’s?



	T:	Yes, it was downtown, on the square.



	W:	It was Wise Drugs was also down there. Is that correct? T:	Right, and they had a sit-in. I never—

	W:	—And there was also the movie theatre, too, but you go ahead. I’m sorry.



	T:	Right, I never participated in it, but um, the bathroom that I was cleaning—there were two on the front side for Blacks. Then around the corner—those were for Whites—and then further on, for employees. And I thought, “You mean to tell me, I’m gone clean all the bathrooms and I’m gonna use the Black bathroom? No way!” [Laughter] But, I saw a lot of changes there—but the main thing I





remember is the White and the Black bathroom. It was unheard of to have certain elevated jobs, and I was the highest paid Black with the company in Gainesville.

	W:	At Belks.



	T:	Yeah.



	W:	Now, where was Belks located Downtown? T:	On North Main.

	W:	On North Main Street?



	T:	Yeah, the 13th on the block. Publix is in that location now, ‘cause Publix was in the same shopping center, but on the far end. But when they—you know after so many years, you need to rebuild or something. Where Belks was, that’s where that Publix is now on North Main.

	W:	Mmhm. Now, the protest that you saw Downtown—what was that like? T:	A sit-in.

	W:	A sit-in.



	T:	Yes, right. And with it being a university city, I reckon they experimented on a lot of things. There was also a group—mostly sorority members—and a lot of ‘em knew me quite well. They came to me to help me, ask me if I wanted to work on the floor and like selling what have you. I thanked them, but I said for me to go to work on the floor, I would take a cut in pay. I went around with pants on, naturally, a loose top looking kind of slack—but you don’t climb a ladder with a dress on. I thanked them, but I said but if I did take a job selling, I would get paid less.

	W:	Mmhm. So, it was a financial decision from your point of view.





	T:	Yes, right.



	W:	How long did you work for Belks? T:	Thirty-six years.

	W:	Okay so you—were you with them when they moved and changed locations? T:	Yes, mmhm.

	W:	Okay.



	T:	Well, they kept the store where I worked. They kept it open for a few years after they opened the new store. I’m sorry—

	W:	[Talking about the recorder] that’s fine. I keep putting it right here on your face, so. [Laughter]

[little boy in background]: What is that?



	W:	Trying to—it’s a recorder. We’re doing an interview, so you can’t talk to us right now.

	T:	The Oaks Mall store—when it opened, I went out there and worked some. Well, they normally do that. When a new store is opening, you get a few from this store and that store for the Grand Opening. And then I worked up there for inventory art thing, but my main station was Main Street. And there was a White guy doing visual merchandising at the Oaks Mall store.

	W:	Mmhm.



	T:	I think, all in all, I got along pretty good with Belk. But it wasn’t enough, just for me. I remember one time, we had a shoplifter. A young lady came in, lifted some stuff. And when they caught her, they took her to the office and they called me just to sit-in, by law. They couldn’t afford to let her stay in there and just the White





guy. I whispered to him, I said, “I’m reluctant about this. I don’t like to get involved.” See, most of the managers there, when they leave Belks, they go out in the country to their home—hid-away home. And I said, “I live almost on 8th Avenue, and I’m not gonna jeopardize my family and myself.” Somebody can pass by that green stop, and throw a bomb or something if they think I’m taking sides or something. And then I finally told them one time—I felt like they were watching the Blacks more than they should. And I said, “What ya’ll don’t know is we would buy clothes if we had nowhere to hang them. We’ll buy a car if we had nowhere to park it. So on that note, since clothing is your business, you’d better try to treat everybody fair.” But I never got in trouble for it. You know, I pray about stuff before I do it. And I felt like—it seemed like an injustice to me. So I thought if I didn’t speak up, who’s gonna do it? But, all in all, they didn’t seem like they were very prejudice, but I think—given a chance—a lot of people would do things undercover.

	W:	Mmhm. I appreciate you talking to me about your business and the personal side of things. I wanted to jump back a little bit to the occasion that we’re at today, the Douglass High School reunion. How did you initially get involved in coming to these reunions?

	T:	Okay. Just before I moved back to High Springs, I heard about the reunion and I got interested in it and got started from there. And this is the first year I really haven’t worked with the committee or anything. But I felt like—and feel like—it was a good thing to remember your past. And, um, they were saying too—it’s a group of people—they don’t seem to gripe about, “Oh I did this before, she didn’t





do this, or something like that.” It seemed like just a—just beautiful fellowship, you know, working together to get the job done.

	W:	Mmhm. Now, these are held every other year. T:	Right.

	W:	How many of these have you been to? What was the first one you came to?



	T:	It was back in the [19]90s, I think. [19]93, or something like that. And ever since they started, I been involved in every one. And I enjoyed it.

	W:	Why are these occasions important to you? Why does that matter? I mean, you graduated from the ACT—not from Douglass—so why is it important for you to come to the Douglass High School reunion?

	T:	You get a chance to reminisce. You meet people that you haven’t seen in a long time—whether they were in your direct class or just a class above, a class below. It’s just good fellowship. And I’ve gone to two of the ACT. The last one I went to was the Fifty Year. And since that time—unfortunately, most have died or we don’t remember each other, things like that.

	W:	I want to ask you about that. You know for me—my interest, as I was telling you before—is the persistence of these events. The fact that Black high schools—you know, non-integrated schools—have not existed for quite a while. And yet, this tradition continues. And it’s not just here, it’s also done over in Perry and in Stark. Why do you think that these events are persistent, like they are, and what can be done to keep them going?

	T:	I think you got a certain Black class of people who believe in doing business the right way. Like the two ladies that were honored at the church—they persisted.





You know, and the short lady, she keeps records like nobody does. And just being—and to me, to be extremely honest—because we’re supposed to pay seventy-five dollars, and then figure it up. And whatever they did—they felt like they didn’t need that much, so they reimbursed it, and gave people ten dollars back. But this lady came by the house—since she was out that way—and they hadn’t cashed my check, so she just asked me to void that one and write another one, for ten dollars less. To me, working with people and being that honest is amazing. Everybody don’t do that.

	W:	Mmhm. It’s more than just a reunion, you all also are involved in philanthropy. You give back to the community. I noticed you had a little scholarship for some students, so you were talking about doing more. Do you expect that to continue with the fact that, you know, in twenty years there weren’t very many younger people here. There was Kevin. Do you have any ideas about how—I mean what do you think is gonna happen?

	T:	I feel like—and I believe they will continue that because that scholarship, don’t care how meager it is, it really means a lot. And the fact, this is something you look forward to. Something you wanna do for kids. And not only that, they do a lot of things like sick and shut-ins. And… Just things like that in general—to me it means a lot.

	W:	They gave money to the daycare in town as well.



	T:	Yes, yes. They always doing something like that. And that’s the daycare where I volunteer, yes.





	W:	What is that like by the way, working at that daycare? I was excited to hear about part of what you do.

	T:	It’s a real good thing. They give you staffing pay, two dollars and sixty-five cents an hour. They give you forty—I think forty-eight cents a mile for travel. And that gives you old people a chance to volunteer, but not at your expense. But needless to say, sometimes we get paid every two weeks, and my average is about a hundred and thirty or a hundred and forty miles I drove. It’s the same every day going to daycare, but we have to meet together in Gainesville once a month for meeting. And to me it’s a big help. And yet you’re helping kids, because some kids, their parents don’t take time, like alphabet. If you are four years old and don’t know your alphabet, I don’t care how busy you are. I used to keep those magnet letters on the refrigerator. I spelled something out, then I had my son to spell something out. Or you could do counting, there’s so many ways you can do that.

	W:	Yeah my brothers and I, we were all reading by the time we were four years old. T:	Oh okay, good.

	W:	I mean that’s sick, when parents are involved you get that enrichment early. So I’m surprised also at four to not know the alphabet. You should be reading.

	T:	Yup, my grandson just been promoted to four, and last year he was reading at a fourth grade level. And his job for the summer is—I don’t know what his mom got him doing or how many hours per day he has to read. And he is so used to it now, he enjoy it. Oh boy, well.





	W:	We’re getting to that time? [Laughter] Well let me say: first of all, thank you again Mrs. Thomas for the opportunity to speak with you. It has been an honor to learn about your life. I hope perhaps we get a chance to do this again sometime. But on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program and the reunion committee here at Douglasss—which we’ll be sharing these audio interviews with—thank you for taking the time to do it. And with that, to give you what I just call, “final privilege.” You can reflect on anything you want to, part of the interview, something in your life, whatever it is. But at the conclusion of your comments that’ll be the end of the interview with our thanks.

	T:	Okay. Well, this is as I’ve had in life, I’ve had two jobs that required an education— which I didn’t have. So I owe everything to God, and I’ve enjoyed the interview, yes.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Krystal Dixon, May 2017



	Audit-edited by:	Bianka Ramirez, October 11, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019