AAHP 565; Forehand; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 565 Estelle Forehand Interviewed by Ryan Morini on May, 10, 2018

84 minutes | 57 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Estelle Forehand recounts her experiences growing up and living in Quincy, Florida. In discussing these experiences, she covers such topics as local Black-owned businesses, religion, cooking and food, as well as other aspects of life in Gadsden County. Ms. Forehand also explains her experiences with voter registration during the Civil Rights Movement in Quincy.



Keywords: [Quincy, Florida; Gadsden County; Civil Rights Movement; religion; cooking; African-American business]



Standards

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism



AAHP 565

Interviewee: Estelle Forehand Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: May 10, 2018



	M:	So this is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. Today is May 10th, 2018 and I’m here in Quincy, Florida with [Linda Dixie,] Mr. Sam Dixie —

	B:	Bertha.



	M:	Ms. Bertha, and —



	D:	Estelle Dixie-Forehand



	M:	Yeah, well, thank you for joining me today. Can I ask when and where you were born?

	D:	I was born here in Gadsden County. M:	Okay, mmhm.

	D:	1936.



	M:	1936, okay.



	D:	February, the first day.



	M:	February the first. And — oh, sorry, go ahead. D:	I was just gonna say two, one.

	M:	Two, one [Laughter]. Were you born in a hospital? D:	No, born at home.

	M:	Okay, was there a midwife? D:	Yes. Beanie Bird.





	M:	Beanie Bird. Do you know anything about Beanie Bird?



	D:	Well I — she lived until I was a young adult. Lived just two blocks over. On Wing Street. One, two blocks over. She was a, you know most midwives was the older ladies. Daddy didn’t have a car so he went and got her on the wagon [Laughter]. He — the transportation that he had, and she would come and see to her, and then they would come back to check on the mother and the baby I think about three or four days.

	M:	And so she delivered a lot of children around here?



	D:	Ooh, yes, that was a thing at that time. I think it was Ms. Beanie Bird — B:	[Inaudible 1:48]

	D:	Ethel Bryant, and Ms. Sarah Bradwell. They said they were grannies, that’s what they called them, grannies. The ladies that delivered the babies. And Ms.

Bradwell, her husband had a buggy, and he would take her in the buggy. You don’t remember them do you? They had a buggy and he — well I guess you would almost say buggy but a surry because he had the —

	SD:	Tops.



	D:	Tops. Yes, they was riding in style.



	M:	Sounds that way. So did you grow up here in Quincy?



	D:	Growed up here in Quincy, right here in Gadsden — well, in Gadsden County. We lived on several tobacco farms, out in Greenshade, and the Greenshade area. And then we lived on the outskirts of Quincy. It wasn’t in Gretna because





Gretna is a little city, but it was out — the mail was delivered Quincy but we lived out there on McKime property.

	B:	McCline.



	D:	McKine. And then after that Daddy moved in his brother on the home on Cleveland Street. This property adjoined that property. And when we moved over there Daddy bought this property and built this house.

	M:	And so when you moved here you were what, in… D:	A teenager.

	M:	A teenager, okay.



	D:	Well, actually, when they moved here I never moved here. M:	Oh, okay, okay.

	D:	I got married from in the other house, on the other street. I never moved here. I never lived here, never lived here until I came back to assist them. I left my house on [Inaudible 3:35] Drive and came. And then Daddy kept deteriorating and he didn’t like being in the house, and he went to a nursing home where he could be around plenty of people. And Momma doesn’t care for — she said no nursing home for herself. I been over here almost nineteen years now. I came over here [19]99, almost twenty years. But I was going home at night for about two years. I would, you know, stay in, take care of her, serve her meals, get her bed, then I would go home. Then she fell and broke her hip. And after she fell and broke her hip she had to go to rehab and when she came home from rehab,





take care of everything, she was riding around in her chair, motorized chair. I’d get her to bed, serve her dinner, get her to bed and every she’d go and start a pity party. This thing and that thing and I stayed one night, I stayed another night, I stayed another. So I been staying.

	M:	Well, so, what are some of your early memories of growing up in Quincy?



D:  Well, we walked to school and no buses were riding Black, and they’d five and six year olds, sometimes seven, eight, would be on a school bus zooming by. And we had to walk whether it was six miles, or seven miles.

	B:	Black kids had to walk white kids had to rode the bus, that’s what she was saying.

	D:	Yes. That was one thing and [Inaudible 5:10] but they didn’t start a bus for Black children until the late [19]40s. And of course, if people lived out in the rural areas and — there was very few cars that time, they children, they rented rooms for they children to stay in town because Stevens was the only high school for Black. And they had to rent, or either — it was very few that could afford transportation back and forth. It was very few children went to school, to high school, that travelled to and fro every day. Most of them rented rooms and stayed over.

	M:	Where would they rent the rooms?



	D:	In different homes, and some of them had relatives. But a lot of them rented because my Uncle Oliver that lived one block, you know [Inaudible 6:06] didn’t you, Ms. Peanie, lived one block off of — on Stevens. They didn’t have children and they had a three-bedroom house and they rented, they had quite a few girls,





young ladies. That stayed with them. And there was other homes that people stayed in but I can remember that Oliver had them because there was a big family, the Jacksons from Chattahoochee. The Jacksons, they with them through the years until all the children got out of high school.

	M:	What do you remember about that, so you went to Stevens your whole — D:	Yes, I went to Stevens through high school.

	M:	Okay. What do you remember about Stevens?



	D:	Well it was just a wonderful, fun place going to school. I enjoyed going to school. M:	Did you have any favorite teachers?

	D:	Well, I was always in the office so I always [Laughter], I always stayed in trouble or something, but teachers were, I’d have to say they was almost restricted more than the children, the Black at that time. Looked like they had a harder time, looked like they principals was just — they was working adults but looked like the preachers — principals just almost discounted them. They would come in the room sometimes and speak to them so harsh that you’d wonder why. But you was a student and you was a child and you didn’t know but ooh they could come in sometime and speak so harsh until they’d make you draw up. At least it did me, make the students draw up. And another thing that was very different. We wasn’t allowed to leave off campus. You couldn’t step cross the street to the store once school taken in. And the white children could be riding around in they cars and things and but you wasn’t allowed to leave off campus. If you left off campus you had, ooh, you had a great offense. Might be expelled from school





and beat up. And they, and I mean it wasn’t no little tap then. They had punished children so until their hands would swell up with their powel.

	M:	Well, so, where did you play growing up around here? What did you do for fun?



	D:	Well you played in the streets and the vacant lots because there wasn’t a park any place. Where there was vacant lots in town the children would clean it up and you’d play on it so until you had a ball diamond, and you’d play baseball in the street. Because at that time it was so few cars until you didn’t have to get out of the street maybe about once a week [Laughter]. Well it was. I can remember when there wasn’t but two people with cars from Pat Thomas Parkway all the way back. That was Mr. Doc MacDonald and James Andrews.

	B:	That’s true.



	D:	Two cars. And then after World War II when the veterans start coming home, a lot of the veterans start buying cars, and that’s when it became more cars in the Black community. And the next person I remember getting a car was Mr.

Thenere, and Ms. Bea and Doll Andrews was the only ladies driving. Two ladies could drive when that happened. Ms. Bea Thenere, and she was an older lady. And Doll Andrews was a young lady.

	B:	It was a stick-shift or automatic? Stick-shift?



	D:	Honey, I — Mr. D had one you could get it cranking it was kind of a s-curve and you could put it in the trunk and [mimics sound of cranking the car] and in the front of it and crank it. And then he would, if it was necessary anyway if there was a little hill or a slope he would park it on that and he’d get out and roll down and it





would be cranked. But other than that you got to crank it and you was fascinated, you loved to crank it for him [Laughter].

M:   So those first car owners, what did they do that they were able to afford the cars?



Were they business people or…



D:  No, Mr. Doc and Ms. Orwell were just working people and James Andrews had a small store, and he was working also. His wife ran the small store, he worked in it after he got off work. But at that time James was cooking, he was a cook.

M:   A cook where? At a —



	D:	He was cooking in a private home. M:	Oh okay, okay.

	D:	For one of the Quincy wealthies. The Wilsons. That ran the big department store. M:	Did a lot — oh sorry, go ahead.

	D:	And after World War II when the veterans start coming home they had cars. The young mens was getting married in Glenam State [Inaudible 11:41] and bought cars and ten of them got married and then a few — a little while they wives was driving and we had to move out of the street [Laughter] quite a few times a day.

	M:	Where did you go to church growing up?



	D:	At Antioch Missionary Baptist Church. The church my family still, my mother still a member of. I got married and I went Methodist.





	M:	Ah, I see. Do you remember who the pastor was when you were growing up? Or the pastors?

	D:	There was a pastor, Reverend White, at Antioch. He was originally from Chattahoochee. And then there was a Reverend Joseph, and then the church split at that time. You know, in the Baptist, Missionary Baptist Church, practically every time they have a election a new church sprout.

	SD:	[Laughter].



	D:	Well really, up in this area. Because, although everyone have a vote in — no one have but one vote. I will vote for who I want and if the person I voted for didn’t become the pastor of the church. Then if this person I voted for stay in this area then we’ll, we’ll go establish another church and it might not be but six or seven or eight, but sometime they stay doing that until they grow in, they really — because Greg, a young — a very young man, he growed up in Hillsley. And he

— I hadn’t been down to his church, I’ve seen pictures of it, but he’ll build a church in the last five years. Mary Alice, Michael Roy’s son.

	B:	Ooh.



	D:	Greg Taylor.



	B:	Where he at?



	D:	In Midway.



	B:	That big old church?





	D:	I don’t know, I haven’t — I saw some pictures of it, it looked like a nice-sized church but — and at the church that my family was a member of they had an election about five years ago. And the pastor that lost out, he stayed — he still here, they having service one block down from Antioch. The Antioch is on the corner of Clark and Clay and he’s down on Clark and 9th. Just one block down, having church. And as far as I know eight members left with him. But Henderson Lockwood died, and Laura died, the Dickleson mother and her daughter died.

	B:	So who he got now?



	D:	The other four that left with him I guess if they haven’t died or go somewhere — I hadn’t heard of them dying, but I know those four died. Robert Dickleson’s wife and his daughter, and Henderson Lockwood and Junebug, and Auntie Laura. All four of them passed. But he still hold another.

	M:	So — oh sorry. Well, earlier you were talking about the business district here, the Black business district. Where was that?

	D:	Well, the Black business, over on Fourth Street, there was Ms. Sangale, and she had a nice-sized grocery store. She had meats and grocery. And, excuse me, then in the neighborhood. Practically every Black neighborhood had a small store in it. A lot of them didn’t have meats but they would have milk and bread and canned good but it’s not the one left now, not the first one. I don’t know of the first one in Gadsden County. I can’t say it’s not but I don’t know. I know it’s not one in Quincy. The neighborhood store, you could go get your bread and oh, it was in that time before electric was popular you could go get your kerosene. Sometime





that was your fuel for your home, fuel for cooking, as well as your light. As they said, out of that five gallons of that one gallon of kerosene, a whole lot came out of it.

	M:	And so the woman who owned the grocery store, how do you spell her name?



Ms. — who owned the grocery store in the business district.



	D:	Oh, Ms. Sangale. [Inaudible 16:30] proper name. Morgan, Morgan. Wasn’t that her name, Morgan? General Morgan? They call her Sangale but her name was Bula Morgan, but those nicknames will hang with you. Ms. Sangale, her name was Bula Morgan.

	B:	The cleaners?



	D:	It was Molan Cleaners, down on Martin Luther King, which was Roberts Street down on Pat Thomas Parkway. It was Roberts Street then, it was Molan Cleaner. That was Mrs. Edins and Mr. Edins. And then there was Mr. Falley, John Falley.

	B:	[Inaudible 17:20]



	D:	Rufus Bayer was on Adams Street. That was downtown, Adams Street. And then on, on further down on Adams Street the Nealeys had a cleaner, Four Hundred Percent Club. Red Nealey and his daddy, Dr. Nealey apparently, but it was Four Hundred Percent Club. And at that time there was only one cleaner operated by white, but now the only dry cleaner in Quincy, it’s only one, and that’s operated by white.

	B:	Morris Cleaner.





	D:	The Morris Cleaner on the corner of Crawford.



	B:	No Crawford going this way, I don’t know that going across. That’s why a lot of people go to Tallahassee, take your clothes to Tallahassee.

	D:	Well I think so many people do so much business in Tallahassee because they work in Tallahassee. And so when you’re over there you can get it all done.

Because I understand if you don’t get your clothes tomorrow by twelve o’clock by Monday you can’t get them that week.

	B:	What happened to them?



	D:	You know they don’t do anything up there but take in clothes, it’s just a pick-up and drop-in and pick-up. They don’t do any laundry, any cleaning up there. They say it’s all done in Tallahassee.

	B:	So that’s why they go to Tallahassee now, a lot of people go to Tallahassee.



Take their clothes.



	M:	So in the earlier days, if there were — it was almost all Black-owned cleaning businesses did white people —

	D:	Yes, it was only one — it was a thing that Blacks done. It was only one, and that came back then after World War II. They opened up that dry cleaner and it’s still operating today but it’s just like I said it’s nothing now but a pick-up, a drop-off and pick-up.

	M:	So did whites go to the Black cleaners to get —



	D:	Yeah, they used them. And a lot of — they done a lot of alterations.







M:

And, Ms. Bula Morgan, like, who was she? Did she grow up around here or do



you know anything about —

D:

I think Ms. Morgan was a native of Gadsden County.

B:

Who’s Ms. Morgan?

D:

Ms. Sangale. Bula Morgan.

B:

Oh, all I know is Sangale, I didn’t know Bula [Laughter].

D:

Well her name was — I had to think of that [Inaudible 20:08] came up.

B:

Yeah, there, she was related to them MacNealen.

D:

She was Ms. MacNeal’s daughter.

B:

Oh, and she lived down there by Strawtham Church.

D:

Yes.

B:

Oh, okay.

D:

See, Ms. Sangale was up on the corner and you go down and go through and it



was several brothers of them, the MacNeal brothers, but she was…

M:

Do you know anything about how she started the grocery store?

D:

No, I don’t. All I know, she was — whenever since I can remember Ms. Sangale



was there.

B:

Mm-hm.

M:

Did she get any of the groceries from local farms or anything? Or where did the…





	D:	I think most of it, I don’t know, I don’t know that. But she had a pool lounge, she even had a market, she had a nice market. Nice place. I had meat slices, she would slice your pork chop. And she was there for quite a few years and as she got older and I don’t think — she had two sons, but I don’t think either one of them took interest in it.

	B:	Were they living?



	SD:	They were away but then —



	D:	Then they came back. She was still operating the business when they came back. But I don’t, and she was getting older, and I don’t think they took a — and I don’t know this, but I know they didn’t take interest in it and operating it when she got so she couldn’t own or operate it and closed up.

	B:	[Inaudible 21:43]



	D:	He went into pool, he went into business but he was in the pool. And William was in the club.

	B:	Opened up for a little while a gas station, for a little while he opened a gas station.

	D:	Yeah, and he was in the club. He was a businessman, they was businessmen but there wasn’t any interest in the business their mother had started.

	M:	Were there any restaurants in that business district? D:	Oh, there was — what was the name of it?

	B:	Will Nelson. And Hutley’s.





	D:	Will Nelson was there before Hutley went. And that was on Adam’s Street. B:	Oh.

	D:	You don’t remember this, something like chicken and [Inaudible 22:26]. B:	Oh, okay, yeah. Walk up the stairs, walk up the steps. Coming from [I-]90.

	D:	I don’t think you had to go up any steps. But maybe you did. I never did get off [Inaudible 22:40] [Laughter]. But I knew it was up there. No, never did get a chance to eat out.

	LD:	It was single men, I think. When you a child usually it’s the single men going to get, because usually families would eat home but usually working men and then people gonna go out.

	D:	Well, working men, and people what could afford it when I did. Just like they do now.

	B:	I had a family cook, we didn’t believe in going to restaurants. Mother and Grandmother got in and cook.

	D:	Because that’s why we always ate at home. Momma cooked, we cooked [Inaudible 23:17], we didn’t go out to eat. It’s just like, even before Momma got so someone had to be with her at all times, I always cooked and that — Momma come from the era where you cook, and if you go out and get something you can take Momma out and Momma might taste it and is always something wrong with it so it hardly wasn’t no use to you taking out to dinner. A hamburger and nothing else, because I remember the last time we had been to the doctor, and of course





at that time I would get her early appointments because if they was gonna do blood work they didn’t want you to eat anything, so I would get her early appointments so she wouldn’t have to be without food for so long. And this one particular day the doctor wanted her to go to Tallahassee and have some more tests done. And I rode her back to Hardee’s and got her a hamburger and a Pepsi. Momma took one bite of the hamburger, opened the Pepsi, the cap off the Pepsi — you know, Pepsi is real dark, have you ever noticed how dark Pepsi is? Momma said: “This soda is too dark, I don’t want it.” And she didn’t take the first sip. And one, I don’t believe she got any of the meat, I think she just nibbled, you know how you get —

	B:	The taste.



	D:	“I don’t like it.” [Laughter]. And so she kept [Inaudible 24:53] for cooking, so I go ahead and cook. Because, you don’t have to cook a full meal but about three time a week, and then you can heat or maybe make a green salad or something to go with it and you have a good, nutritious tasting meal without doing all that. You don’t have to go in there and go through the whole process, a whole meal every day, about three times a week. And you got it right.

	B:	Well back then them days they cooked every day.



	D:	Yes, but I’m not back in that day I’m talking about for the last twenty years.



	LD:	They cooked enough, they know how much you all eat so you all ate it all so that’s why they had to cook the next day.

	D:	No. But we cooked big pots of those peas and beans and ooh.





	LD:	Some families say that’s why, they said everybody ate everything so they cooked every day.

	D:	Yes. Because we ate from the garden a lot. B:	Yes.

	M:	So where’d you grow on the garden?



	D:	My daddy had a lot, vacant lot — this house is built on one lot and the vacant lot there. And then down where his mother and father lived there was property had potatoes and cane and we ate from — really we bought salt and pepper, you bought sugar.

	B:	Rice.



D:  Rice and flour. And it costs you — and during that time when we was growing up wild blackberries was everywhere. We picked blackberries and Momma put them up making pies — pudding some people called it, but we called it doobie. Put it in the pot with flour dumplings, and then you made you some biscuits and you ate it by the bowl [Laughter]. It’s a wonder we hadn’t [Inaudible 26:44], but because we did a lot of walking and a lot of work. Because we ate rich, fattening foods but we didn’t get because we walked everywhere we went and we worked.

LD: Daddy raised hogs and chickens — D:  Huh?

	LD:	Pigs, hogs, pigs.





	D:	Yeah, you had to go slop the hogs, you had to go draw water for the hogs, you had to carry water for the hogs. And so you did a lot of work. You went to school and you came — you went to work before you went to school and you went to work for him when you got back from school. But we think that’s what most children was doing and you thought nothing of it. Because the children who didn’t have work to do would come go with us and help us work.

	B:	Kids wasn’t getting into trouble then like they are now. [Inaudible 27:36].



	D:	Because I know Melma-Sue and Eloise and Jean they didn’t have any and they would go with us. And then when the watermelons got ripe Daddy would bring them home by the wagonloads and let them enjoy.

	M:	Did you make your own bacon and things like that?



	D:	Yeah, Daddy killed hogs. And they had a — Daddy would even kill a beast every so often. They had a cold storage, we didn’t have a home freezer, then. They had a cold storage and they would cure your pork and they would keep it and you could go up and get your frozen beef or whatever, you know, whatever you wanted. Steak, or whatever was in [Inaudible 28:22]. And you could keep it at home until you needed another supply and you would go get it.

	SD:	I remember you had — D:	Huh?

	SD:	I remember you had cows. Your daddy had cows.



	D:	Yes, and every so often he would kill a cow and put it in the cold storage.





	SD:	I remember what I remember about it, I thought they were trained cows. B:	Trained?

	SD:	Yeah, because I was a little boy but I — he’d pull up there with the truck or whatever he got and he’d blow the horn.

	D:	Oh yeah, they learned what feed them. Yeah, he could blow and they would come loping from all over the pasture. By the time he got there and opened the gate they was all there.

	SD:	Right, see, but I thought that was like trained cows. They was trained to be fed.



	D:	Yes, they was coming to be fed. And it’s that way about, if you was around chickens if the person went out with the bucket and you made a little tap on it and you did that they was coming from every direction. Yes sir, they would come loping. The ones that could run the fastest, and the mothers and the babies, the calves would usually be the last ones coming because that mother wasn’t gonna leave her baby far behind. And those young ones, that was no longer mother’s baby, I guess they was teenage cows, they would come leaping. Daddy could blow that truck and he’d start blowing down on the [Inaudible 30:02] and by the time he got to the gate they was all there.

	B:	Look it.



	D:	Yes, ready to eat, honey. If you don’t give it to who feeds you when will you give them.





	M:	Well, so, you described having chores after school. Was there a point when you started working for money?

	D:	Yeah, when I was in about ninth grade I started babysitting for whites, and I babysitted quite a bit.

	M:	So what was that like?



	D:	Oh, you go and you take care of a — well, it would be after school and you would go and a lot of time it was younger couples that liked to go out and they’d be going to play bridge or going dancing or just going out to eat, going to a movie, wherever they was going. And usually you was there and you gave the children, it was one or two children, you gave them their bath and put — maybe served them their evening meal and put them to bed. Just be there in the house with them until their parents return.

	M:	Did you like that work or was it just kinda work?



	D:	It was fine with me because, son, it brought in some M — O — N — E — Y [Laughter].

	LD:	Back then what did you make an hour? D:	Oh.

	B:	Probably about a dollar back then. LD:	About two dollars or —

	D:	You’d — babysitting the evening for three dollars, probably three or four dollars.





	LD:	Was a long day. Seven years later I was only making about fifty cents, so back then you was making as much as I was making in my nightly wage. Because back then by the time I stopped babysitting I calculate I was only getting fifty cent.

	B:	Fifty cent an hour?



LD:  Yeah. Because by the time, if they stayed six hours, I got like three dollars. M:  So what did you do with that money?

D:  Well, your parents got part of it, and I learned to sew early and I’d go buy me some twenty-five cent yard of material and make me a skirt [Laughter]. Three yards could make a broomstick skirt, ooh, be full. Either pleats of gathers.

M:   Did you learn to sew at school or did your mom teach you?



	D:	Well my mom sewed and my grandmother sewed, and then they also thought homemaking school. And so it was almost a thing that I guess I took an interest in and it came naturally to me. Because I was making skirts for other girls for twenty-five cent. And if I put a zipper in them, they was fifty cent. But so many of them you didn’t do anything but, because they wouldn’t buy the zipper. But if they didn’t buy the zipper you put a piece of fabric in it and done it like a pocket, and that was where you open clothes, your skirt, and you put a one button the waistband. And they would hem them, I would do the machine stitching and they would hem them. And I did, when I was in eighth and ninth grade I made skirts for other girls for twenty-five cents.





	M:	Pretty good business, it sounds like.



	D:	And I’d come home some evenings and make three. Because all you had to do was stitch them all the way around and then draw the thread up and put the waistband on it and put that piece of fabric like a pocket for the pocket.

	M:	So where did you get the fabric from?



	D:	Oh I liked Wilson Company. They had, oh they had — well they was a well- stocked, good material store. And I liked it. And then sometimes we could get it at the dime store because the dime store they had cheaper fabric, and sometimes your money wasn’t long enough to go to Wilson so you wanted a new skirt anyway so you went to where you could get the skirt material for your money, and that was at Christough’s and McCorrough.

	B:	Okay.



	D:	And what was the name of the other dime store? It was three. Christough’s, McCorrough, and what was the name of the other one?

	B:	[Inaudible 34:25].



	D:	[Inaudible 34:26] wasn’t a dime store that was a department store. LD:	By the time I came up that was Woomer.

	D:	No, we had McCourrough’s was on the corner, with they basement downstairs.



And Christough’s was next to it and there was the third one.



	LD:	Five and Ten?







D:

[Inaudible 34:44] it was three. Five and Ten.

B:

Oh, I remember the Five and Ten. Wasn’t it on the corner of [I-]90 and Adams?

D:

Yeah, that was McCorrough, and then there was Christough.

B:

Where was Christough?

D:

Next door. And then there was the May’s drug store, and then there was one

dime store below May. And then there was the Fish John, the man what had sold fish and had all the cats.

B:

Okay.

D:

And then the citizen bank.

B:

I remember the bank but only that.

D:

You don’t remember Christough’s with the fish and all the cats?

B:

Unh-uh.

D:

Ooh.

LD:

Was that Fish John? I guess —

D:

Because he had fish and cats laying ooh, just cats, cats, cats, all kinda cats. Big



cats.

M:

[Laughter].

D:

You don’t remember Fish John?

LD:

I remember just Ten Cent John or something —





	D:	Well that was Ten Cent John, Fish John, Ten Cent John. The fish and all the cats.

	LD:	I didn’t remember the cats.



	D:	Because his store was on the west side of the square. And see, the sun in the morning would be casting in his window and ooh the cats were just all kind of — fancy cats, all those fuzzy cats, Persian, I guess and they were big cats and oh they just be lounging like to say this is our beach. Oh and they had so many of them.

	LD:	Because by the time I was growing up I think the Ten Cent John had moved around on, what’s [Inaudible 36:18].

	D:	I don’t remember Fish John moving. LD:	No, I just said —

	D:	He closed.



	LD:	Right, that’s what I said. I didn’t remember that store, I remember they called the other store just Ten Cent John.

	D:	Well Ten Cent John and Fish John was — LD:	Neighbors.

	D:	No, it was the same place. Ten Cent John and Fish John, right there on Adams Street. Next door — it was either next door to May’s or the drug store was up there, L.P. May’s Drug Store, either the last ten cent store was next to Fish John.





But they was all there on that block, that was all on that block. And when I was a very small girl you remember the second-hand store Kurt?

	B:	Nuh-uh.



	D:	The man that used to have all the, after World War II, he had all these army uniforms and —

	B:	In that same block?



	D:	Yeah, on this side of the square. Over there where L.P. — L.P. May’s building is still over there with their name on it.

	B:	Okay.



	D:	You hadn’t noticed that? B:	No, I never go that way.

	D:	Well, anyway L.P. May’s is still have their name on their building. Bell and Bates



still have their name on their building.



	B:	Mm-hmm.



	D:	Just as it was when I was a child. B:	Okay.

	D:	And the Wilson building still have the name on their building. LD:	I know she forgot Daddy also did sweet potatoes.

	D:	Huh?





	LD:	You mentioned just potatoes, but sweet potatoes — D:	Huh?

	LD:	He grew some of everything, sweet potatoes, peanuts. D:	Who?

	LD:	Daddy? Tomatoes, okra.



	D:	Yeah, if you could raise it — Daddy he could plant a tree and he’d think it would have some whether it was pears, pecans, figs. If it was something that you could eat and he could get hold of it Daddy would plant it.

	B:	And it would live.



	D:	Huh?



	B:	And it would live.



	D:	And it would live and he would — and thanks the Lord that everything he planted he got to enjoy some fruit. All of them for years the pecans, the pears, because the pears in the last three years have been very slim. But they have enough on there to let you know it’s still a pear tree. But it’s not having a bountiful crop like it used to. Because the — even when — huh?

	B:	And then they just stop bearing. D:	No it’s, but it’s very few.

	B:	It’s very few, yeah.





	D:	Because when I first started coming I had to pick them up, you know to keep there being so many flies and bees, you have to keep them clean and [Inaudible 39:02] around, I had to work to get those pears up every day. Because they’re the soft pears and if you don’t get them up they turn to mush. And when you would tell people they can come have some well you’d got to get them when they’re still firm. “I thought you said they were soft.” I said: “Take them home now and check them every day, if you don’t you’ll have a bowl or whatever you put them in mush.” Because it only take three days you can — they can be so firm you can hardly get it to budge and in three days they’ll be very soft —

	B:	Soft.



	D:	And I like them when they’re still crispy. When you bite them just [exaggerated biting noises] [Laughter] and sometime the juice just pop. They look very good. And I planted persimmon trees and they’ve been bearing for about six years. But a lot of people don’t like persimmons, they say that it’s too sour. But I love them they’re delicious.

	B:	Yeah, they are.



	D:	But they’ll — you have to wait until they get butter-soft, because if they don’t you might be trying to clean your mouth up three or four days.

	M:	[Laughter].



	D:	Tight up and yup that taste. M:	It’s like sand in your mouth.





	D:	Huh?



	M:	It’s like sand in your mouth, it’s all —



	D:	No, it’s worse than sand, it’s not a grittier feeling, it’s just a tightness. B:	They say it lock your jaws.

	D:	Well it, it’s a tightness it locks you up, but it’s very unpleasant and you don’t rinse it out and brush it out with water it almost have to wear it. If you bite in one that’s isn’t, isn’t like — but unless it’s soft as room temperature butter you gone get tight up. And it be so pretty on the tree, everybody be saying: “what are those?” You know because they be turning gold or orange and they look like little globes. But I think I’m gonna have very few this year because I’m looking and I see very little. But sometimes when —

	B:	It’s not been raining a lot, either.



	D:	When everything is green, you don’t — they don’t be as noticeable.



	M:	Oh, sorry, go ahead. Well, you were saying you picked wild blackberries. Were there any other wild foods you ate? Or —

	D:	Well blackberry was about the most that you could pick wild. And they made good jelly, good pies, good jam, and even good wine. The grown people they would, ooh, they would pick blackberries and make wine, wine, wine, wine. But we was [Inaudible 41:56] Momma would make canned blackberries and just can them in their own juice to make pies and they pot desert doobie, with dumplings. That’s my favorite, I like doobie better than I do a pie.





	SD:	Me too.



	LD:	And the persimmons, first ones we had were wild, the wild persimmons. D:	Well yeah, but I got the cultivated persimmons.

	LD:	I know but I said as a child, the persimmons we got that Daddy would pick in the country were wild persimmons.

	D:	Yeah, but that was the wild ones. They are small, they’re very sweet and very delicious, and the cultivated ones are larger.

	LD:	And then there’s some trees in [Inaudible 42:36] —



	D:	And yeah, those blackberries though. And we picked blackberries and also sold them for ten cents a quart.

	M:	Where’d you sell them?



	D:	To your neighbors. People that — oh you know some people couldn’t go in the bushes and they didn’t want to get scratched up so you pick them and sell them to them and some elderly people that was no longer able to go. And you could always sell them. But as my daddy told us don’t sell nothing on credit. If they didn’t have the money don’t let them have it [Laughter]. That’s right. And I was glad to, I said: “May I give” — I said “no ma’am, my daddy said if you don’t have the money.” And I was glad to tell them that, that my daddy said [Laughter] if you don’t have the money. Because as a whole they wouldn’t pay you, even a ten cent. And some of them would want two quarts but they wouldn’t pay you. And so Daddy said: “They don’t have the money, don’t let them have it. And go on up the





house [Inaudible 43:37] and sell them to the next one. Or else bring them back home and we’ll make a big bowl blackberry doobie.” Because we used to cook it

— we used to do it a similar style. One would be you washed the blackberries, put them in a pot and start them boiling. And one would be making the dumplings. And as you make the dumplings and cut them out and you put them over that layer of blackberries and another one would be having to dip it from the boiling pot, putting it over. Then you push it back on the stove and let it cook slow and you test your doobie — your dumpling. Because you want your dumpling to be blue all the way through, you don’t want them to have no white. And ooh —

	B:	That was good, huh?



	D:	You never had blackberry doobie? B:	Yeah, I like peach doobie.

	D:	Oh honey, that dessert was good.



	B:	I didn’t like the blackberry on account of the seeds.



	D:	Well if you didn’t want the seeds in them you squeeze them but we always found that we liked blackberries, we had seed and all. But a lot of people strained those, strained them. And they don’t have the seed. But we like blackberries and so we had it all. Seed and juice. But a lot of people squeeze them, strain them, and they just have the clear — the juice —

	B:	Juice.





	D:	And then they put the dumplings in it and some people even make their pies and they strain it and don’t have any, can’t stand the seeds. And some people have a health condition that they can’t tolerate seeds. But we was country people and we had the seeds.

[People moving around]



	LD:	Some of our neighbors, I’m trying to remember, like I remember people, the last tree, there was some wild cherry trees. That guy used to be talking about they were picking cherries and something off some tree.

	D:	Yeah, this is [Inaudible 45:26].



	B:	What about blueberries, huh? Not blueberries, [Inaudible 45:32].



	LD:	[Inaudible 45:33] I thought it was some tree that they used to play with a cherry tree, and then you talked somebody gonna pick them to make wine.

	B:	Mulberries, I know there was a mulberry tree.



	D:	Mulberries and cherries they would make wine. Blackberries, too.



	LD:	That’s what I said I thought every now and then like one time one pick them one cherry tree over here.

	D:	It was a cherry tree next door. LD:	Right, that’s what I thought.

	D:	It was a cherry tree next door.



	LD:	I don’t know why, not like I remember getting any cherries off of it.





	D:	Well maybe you didn’t. Maybe the grown people didn’t left ones out there long enough for a child to get it, it was getting them so fast to make wine [Laughter].

	LD:	That’s what I said, they were setting to make wine. Like I said —



	D:	Yeah, they would use all the fruit. Because a lot of people pick blackberries and they eat blackberry, ooh, they said that blackberry wine, wonder they’d be. And it used to be every vacant lot all around the edge of every — whether it was a corn field or a tobacco shade or — blackberries, blackberries, blackberries. And I — my sister, my first sister that passed, Joanne, been dead twenty-something years. And I picked blackberries the year — Daddy and I went picked some blackberries the year before she died. Went back those same places, no blackberries, no blackberries. I haven’t been able to pick blackberries in over twenty years. I go look for them, and except for that little out in the rural area — because my brother live in a rural area, but no blackberries.

	SD:	I got some, I got some wild ones, growing out in my yard.



	D:	Are they blackberries or dewberries? Oh these are blackberries. Then, I started planting, I planted some cultivated blackberries in other spots. So hopefully I can get some after a while.

	B:	Can get the bush, too, blackberry bush.



	D:	Yeah, you can buy the blackberries but I was talking about the wild ones that the Lord would just — used to just spring them up everywhere in Gadsden County. We would go and pick them by — we would take a washtub and go pick a — oh





in some few hours we would have a washtub of blackberries, because they was just everywhere.

	SD:	Yeah, I remember picking them as a kid out in the country at my grandmother’s place they grow along the fence-line.

	D:	[Inaudible 47:57].



	SD:	Like along the fence-line of the cow pasture. And each side of the road.



	D:	Yeah, you could get on the fence-line and some of them would be about this long. Oh, they had to call them vine blackberries.

	B:	[Inaudible 48:10].



	D:	Yeah, some of them would be just about this long and almost as large as my finger and then some of them would be round. And honey, when you get to that type. And, when they’re shining they’re fresh. And if they’re dull, no use to you picking that one.

	B:	They’re not fresh.



	D:	Because they’re overripe. B:	Oh, okay.

	D:	And if you go to reach for them your fingers go in them. But if those are shining, they’re firm, you can get and into your bucket. Sit your bucket down what you can pick with both hands. And I would always take a long a stick and you would always shake the bush.





	B:	Was that for snakes?



	D:	Snakes or wasps. Because those wasps now, honey. The snake will make you run but the wasps will run and get you.

	LD:	Oh I remember the wasps.



	D:	I don’t know how but they — you can run but they will catch you and usually they going around your head and don’t let them get near your eye, your mouth, you’ll swell so. So you shake the bush and run back from it, and if nothing fly out —

	B:	You start picking.



	D:	You could pick. Because the wasps be in blackberry bushes a lot. You would [Inaudible 49:26] when you was able to pick them, so you’d shake the bush and run, and look to see what was coming out. Because if you touch that bush and wasps in there they’ll come out.

	B:	What about bees? D:	Huh?

	B:	What about bees?



	D:	Well I wouldn’t ever worry about bees being [Inaudible 49:45]. You find bees be in the ground.

	B:	Yeah.



U: Hello, hello, hello.



	D:	Hello.





	M:	Here, if we can. So the first thing, does anyone still make doobie?



	D:	Yes, whenever I, whenever I — blackberries in the market are so expensive, I can’t buy them. Six ounces costs two for five dollars. Black, strawberries, you get two pints for five dollars. But the blackberries you get — they come in little six ounces, and it would take about twenty dollars to make a good doobie, so that’s too rich on my blood. I can’t afford it. And in the cans, a sixteen ounce can costs about four dollars. I think the last time I priced blackberries in a can was $4.99.

[Furniture being moved]



	D:	Don’t carry those chairs, Linda, let the man do it. Let him show his gentleman qualities [Laughter]. They don’t show them very often so let them show them when they can.

U: Oh I show mines, all the time.



	D:	Well that’s wonderful, that’s wonderful because very few do. LD:	Can you make it?

U: Oh yeah, oh yeah, I’ve been doing this —



	D:	He gone try and pretend he’s Superman. LD:	This ain’t nothing, here [Laughter]. [Moving furniture]

	D:	He got to come back to get the table. LD:	I know.





	M:	Oh.



	LD:	Yeah, the homeowners be poor while the white person is crying and her son gets stuck. We gone have too many men so we have to help.

	D:	But they have the nice white tables and the nice white chair. B:	I was looking at that.

	D:	Huh?



	B:	I was looking at that. D:	Yes, they’re nice.

	M:	I could probably take that table out to him if it’s — D:	Huh?

	M:	Should I take that table out? D:	Well get it. Flex your muscles.

	LD:	He got more money for the pecan. Like she said, the neighbors. But the pecan he could go to the market.

	M:	Where was the market at?



	LD:	We had several places. One was on, that wouldn’t have been Crawford Street but I forgot the street. And, one place downtown. It was like two or three places where you could go sell your pecans.

	D:	It wasn’t but two, was it? Pierce and Ernie’s?





	LD:	That’s right. And I thought years later maybe one of them moved down on Jefferson, right, years later there was a place on Jefferson, too.

	B:	Here’s your jalapeno bread. D:	Huh?

	B:	Got me some jalapeno bread.



	D:	I remember Ernie’s pecan stand is still open. Well, open during the season because they closed in March. And then Pierce was on the corner of Crawford and Jackson Street. Right across from the nickel store.

	LD:	Right. I don’t know why I thought years later there was a place — D:	Those were the only places I know that people could sell pecans.

	LD:	On, not too far from the post office, on one of those corners I thought.



	D:	Well it might been, I don’t remember. I know Ernie’s Pecan, and that’s the only one that’s still open, Ernie’s.

	LD:	That’s right, years ago.



	B:	That’s one behind, over there by —



	D:	By Switch-It. And they open, I think they open in last October, first of November.



And then they’re open until March. But I think they closed early, this year because you know it was a very small crop for pecans.

	B:	Next year they’ll be good, [Inaudible 53:35] every other year.





	D:	Because it used to be the time that you would go well out there and there’d be trucks and cars all around the block and you’d go by there and you might see one or two. Because, for quite a few years the pecan crop have been very, very small. Because I — we have two trees and I only picked up maybe about three gallons.

	B:	Hmm.



	D:	Of course, the trees are near the property line so I don’t even try to go on the other people’s property, I just pick up on —

	B:	On your side?



	D:	On our property. Because some people these be their trees but for it fall on the other person property. And of course that place is vacant, and no one’s over there but you got to get up before day in the morning because the people, the surveyor, I call, [Inaudible 54:34] surveyor every tree, everywhere [Laughter]. I call them the surveyor. They be out early and they go everywhere there’s a tree and they will even come in — you can be in your house, there’re elderly people that stay in the house if they want. By the time they get up and get out they surveyors have been out and are already cleaning up. They say: “well aren’t the pecans even falling?” They’re falling but the early birds have gotten them and gone on to surveyor the next spot. And I believe the city went around and cut down all the trees that was on the right of way, because I know several places there was trees and —

	B:	They were cut down.





	D:	They was cut down, because I don’t know whether it was too close to the street or what it was, but they all gone. Because, on the corner of Adams Street and Clark Street, up there where [Inaudible 55:336] is packing now, she’s leaving some pecan trees up there that —

	B:	I bet you they did, I noticed some of it was missing.



	D:	Yeah, all those pecan trees are missing. And they had large nuts on them. And they was the easy shell one, because when they would hit the street —

	B:	They would crack open.



	D:	They would crack open. But they cut them — they was near the street, but they cut them on —

	B:	Yeah, a lot of that probably had to do with the weather. D:	And that property is for sale, that property is for sale.

	B:	Really?



	D:	You didn’t notice the for sale sign? B:	Unh-uh.

	D:	It’s been for sale now I recon about three months. B:	Nobody don’t want it?

	D:	Well, no, but that for sale sign is still up there. Because that’s one thing, usually when the for sale — well sometimes people tear them down, but usually when they come down. And then some places, when the realtor had it for sale, when





they sell it they’ll put up a sold sign and let you know the transaction has taken place. But that place is hilly and so I — would probably have to develop it, you know get — spend so much money in developing it because it’s hilly.

	B:	Hmm.



	M:	So, you were talking before about learning to sew from your grandmother. D:	Uh-huh.

	M:	Who was your grandmother?



	D:	Mary Johnson, my mother’s mother. My maternal grandmother. Mary Johnson. She sewed. And my mother sewed also but my grandmother earned her living sewing.

	M:	Okay. Did you know her pretty well?



	D:	Oh yes. I was — my daughter was a teenager when Gran passed, Grandmamma. My daughter knowed both of her grandmothers. My mother’s mother and Daddy’s mother. And we knowed Grandpa Dixon, but I never did know my mother’s father, Curtis. Grandpa Dixon was a — your daddy was small like him but your daddy was taller. Because he was very short, but he was small. And Uncle David and Uncle Allen and Uncle Allenive had long legs, Daddy was short. And Uncle Kane was short. The oldest boy and the second son was short. Allenive was tall. To me he was more like — did you ever see him Sam?

	SD:	Who, Allenive?



	D:	Uh-huh.





	SD:	I remember going up to, to his funeral. D:	You went to see — visit him?

	SD:	Right, that was up in, if I’m not mistaken, Patterson, New Jersey? Patterson? D:	Asbury Park.

	SD:	Yeah, up in there. Because I remember going up — I got some pictures I took from there.

	D:	That was his stomping ground, Asbury Park. He was tall, and more like Grandma. Grandma was a tall, fine, distinguished-looking lady and married a little —

[Laughter]



	D:	I call them dusty-butts. Yeah, he was small and short. M:	That’s Mary Johnson who was tall? Or the other?

	LD:	The Dixie grandmother.



	M:	Dixie grandmother, oh okay. D:	Huh?

	SD:	Stella?



	LD:	Yeah, the paternal.



	M:	The tall grandmother was —





	D:	Oh, Stella Dixie, my father’s mother, she was tall. My mother’s mother was short. And they both thought they was very attractive ladies. Well they were to me, both of them was right — Grandma Honey was short. And the cutest thing about her, she said in 1918 she had been to camp, her husband was in service, and she had been to see — to camp, and she had come back on the train. And she walked up the street and she said when she came the little boy was sitting on his shoeshine box. But little boys used to have a little box that the man could rest his shoe on and they would shine his shoes. And she said the little boy was sitting on his shoeshine box. And she went up the street and she came back and he said: “Everybody looking, lady. Everybody looking, lady.” And so he said: “Looking at you because you looking good.” [Laughter]. And my grandmother was a little pretty lady I said: “I know you didn’t, you tried to throw your behind over your shoulder.” But she laughed and said: “she had been to the Appalachee north and just visited her husband.” And she went up the street and came back and the little boy was still, said: “Lady everybody’s looking, looking at your because your looking good.” [Laughter].

	B:	I think I remember her.



	D:	Her, yeah, that’s her picture right there. That’s Mama. B:	She was a fine little lady, she used to walk very sporty.

	D:	Now you talking about she walk very sporty. She was just short and kind of frisky. B:	Yeah, I remember, I remember her a little bit.

	SD:	Who was the one they call Vannie?







D:

That was Daddy’s grandma, that was Grandma Stella’s mom.

SD:

Okay.

D:

She was very small and held her head very high. Vannie Horns.

LD:

She was very dark, but —

D:

Huh?

LD:

I said black as a shoe, she’s very dark.

B:

Had pretty skin, too [Inaudible 01:01:11].

D:

Huh?

B:

She had pretty skin.

D:

Yes.

SD:

And now, was she one — she was a slave?

D:

Hmm?

SD:

She was a slave?

LD:

I would imagine.

D:

I —

SD:

Because I remember for one of her, think it must have been in [19]63, she got a



letter that came for her birthday.

D:

Uh-huh.





	SD:	And it was from Kennedy. And I believe she was a hundred and something at that [Inaudible 01:01:47].

	D:	Yes.



	LD:	But I don’t think Grandma Bonnie was living in 1963, not in — so that was with someone else —

	SD:	I don’t think so.



	D:	Because Grandma Bonnie died when I was about, I don’t know, about eight or nine, maybe ten. But we have to do something —

	SD:	Eight or nine? Well maybe it wasn’t [19]63, but I remembered it. D:	I did.

	SD:	The incident. Maybe I’m tying it because [19]63 was when Kennedy died. D:	Yes.

	M:	So where were your grandparents from? Were they from Quincy?



	D:	Oh, Mama’s parents was from Georgia. Whigham, Georgia. They used to go up to, well one Uncle did, Uncle Oliver. My grandmother’s brother. And I remember Grandma Honey going once, and I went one. You went up to — you’d go back to Whigham, to what they call a homecoming every year. But older people they kept it going, and after they died then they children and grandchildren wasn’t interested anymore so it’s —

	B:	Died out.





	D:	Yeah, as I said, die by the wayside. But families are doing much better now, so many of them are really having family reunions at intervals, and so that keep you in touch.

	M:	So, do you know how your Grandma Mary learned how to sew? Was that at school or did she study somewhere or just kinda —

	D:	No, I think it just a hand-down thing from mother to daughter, from aunt to somebody in the neighborhood. Now, my grandmother sewed but I don’t know how she learned. And then Mama learned to sew from her mother and in school, and I learned to sew from my mother and in school. And then I went took tailoring at Lincoln. And so, that was my sewing.

	M:	Well, you said your grandmother made a living sewing. Did she sell clothes around here or did she work or —

	D:	She sewed in her home, yes. M:	Oh, okay.

	D:	Sewed in here home until she became disabled. M:	And so you went to Lincoln high then?

	D:	I went to Lincoln trade school.



	M:	Trade school, okay. So that’s after you graduated? D:	In the public school of Leon County. Old Lincoln.

	B:	Is it still open?





	D:	No, no, no.



	B:	They closed it?



	D:	Oh yes, old Lincoln’s been gone for years. SD:	And then they opened a school they call — D:	Hmm?

	SD:	They opened a school they call Lincoln — D:	Yes.

	SD:	But they’ve changed everything. They changed the mascot, the colors. D:	Yes.

	B:	So this is the new Lincoln?



	SD:	Yeah, and it’s a new Lincoln. With new colors, new history. It’s almost like they said: “Okay, they used to have a Lincoln, but we’re gonna start a new Lincoln with a new history.”

	D:	Yes. That’s the reason they say the old Lincoln.



M:  So, I mean a lot of your family ended up really involved in the Civil Rights Movement, but what do you remember about that?

D:  Well, yeah, if you lived in this area you might not been in it, directly involved and taken, but you had to live it, you was living. You lived through yours so you was living in it.





	M:	So were you ever involved or were you just —



	D:	Yeah, I would go to the meetings and I participated. And when my brother ran for sheriff I was his treasurer. And did I have a time, because people sent us checks. Large checks that wasn’t any good and you know, you had to keep up with the, really keep a close check on the finance. And so we received so many checks that —

	B:	Bounced.



	D:	Bounced, wasn’t no good. I think people must have kept every old account that they ever closed and sent us super-checks [Laughter].

	M:	Well, how did you first get involved with the Movement?



	D:	Well, here they was gone have a meeting or either you being out and a rally was going on and you stopped and take interest and they picked you, and then you start going and you wanted to be able to have the privilege of full citizenship, so you want to learn, you want to do for yourself and to try and help someone else.

	M:	And, how old were you when you started getting involved? D:	Oh, I was married and I was about, I was in my twenties.

	M:	Did you do any of the actual picketing and demonstrating and things?



	D:	No, but I rode people to the register, because I drove and I had a car. I rode people to register to vote. And I was privileged, I find out one thing, you was able to ride more of them to register than you was when it come time to vote.

	B:	A lot of them didn’t vote?





	D:	Oh for a long time a lot of them didn’t vote. You would go get them to register and you know they were registered and you know it’s only the twelve hours of voting and they’d — oh sometimes you’d go by, gone give them a ride, and they’ll have you come three times. And they didn’t ever make it.

	M:	So what did you think when your brother ran for sheriff? D:	Huh?

	M:	What did you think when —



	D:	Well I thought it was, we didn’t — we had a, we talked it over and everything, and I didn’t have any idea because I didn’t think it was that many people at that time that would get registered to vote that would vote for him, but it would be an encouragement, and I think more people was registered. So many of them didn’t go back to vote, but more of them was registered during that time, I think that was the largest voting register increase that we had.

	M:	Were you ever worried during the Movement?



	D:	Slightly, but not really serious, because things are never — I didn’t think or seen on TV where things was being burned or torn down or people being threatened. I don’t think that ever, if it did I didn’t know anything about it. I can’t say it didn’t happen but I didn’t know anything about people being threatened, and people being burned out, and people being stopped and questioned, I didn’t know anything. But really I think Gadsden County was truly segregated and still is to this day. But for it being violent, and people having to fear for their life, I don’t think they had to do that in this area.





	[Yelling from outdoors] M:	Well.

	B:	Noisy street.



	D:	Huh?



	B:	I said noisy street.



	D:	Well, you know, we got apartments next door. It’s not private homes anymore, it’s apartments.

	M:	Well, let’s see, so you weren’t really too worried. Did it feel kind of exciting to be part of the movement or what —

	D:	Yes, it was very exciting, to me it was, it was very exciting. M:	What was exciting about it?

	D:	The end of — well your personal feeling that you was more or less a full-fledged citizen, you wasn’t just a living person anymore, I feel that registering to vote make you a full-fledged citizen. You’re — before that you were just a person. If you of the age to be registered and you registered and vote then I feel that you are being actually a full-fledged citizen, but when you not registered and not voting you’re just a person, and not enjoying any of your citizenly privileges.

	M:	So, if I can ask, when — was there a point in your life when you first kind of felt like you understood what racism meant and what segregation really meant?

	D:	I think from a child I think I understood that.





	M:	Just from kinda seeing it?



	D:	It’s just a — I think just understanding the way things were. You know, it was the, that — as I said that great gulf, we were individuals but there was that great gulf.

	M:	Did it feel unfair to you even as a child or was it later that you realized —



	D:	Well, you know, it didn’t bother me as a child, it didn’t bother me. I know the gulf was there and it didn’t bother me. And just like they say about going into the places that were predominantly their places, but give us a — I remember we, I don’t remember when I saw a new book in elementary school. I don’t believe I ever saw a new book in elementary school. Everything was used, used, used. I think I was about in junior high school when I saw the first new books come to Stevens School. It was all used and some of them was used and in packages and some of them was used, used and was real worn out because pages and pages were missing. And we’d — went to school and so many time oh my goodness, I remember fifteen or twenty pages would be missing off the book and then when you got further on in it there was, you know, every other page or two missing. The teacher had to put so much on the blackboard that wasn’t in all the books. And then so many times in the classroom even with the used, raggedy books, it was so few of them. And now I think the children don’t either, everything is copied, copied, copied, copied and then they pass it out, you know they don’t have — because you see very few children going and coming to school with books.





	B:	I asked my cousin why they don’t carry books, at first I asked him, I said: “I don’t never see you reading a book.” He said: “We not allowed to bring the books no more, to home, because they got a weapon thing, until they get the security system set up in the school.

	D:	Well I know, and most things are copied. You know, when they just have the loose copy and that’s all they bring home. No books. And of course, you know, with computers and they can go home and if a child is fortunate enough they have a computer. I think now you get left behind unless you were a excellent, excellent student because so much they depend on you having access to a computer. And when you have three or four children, one computer don’t make it. It’s wonderful to have one but when you have three or four and everybody needing it there’s just not enough hours in the day for the time that they have it between getting out of school and bedtime or getting up in the morning and going to school. For three or four children to have access to the same computer, but very few people can have more than one, or every child can have a computer.

Because there are some programs that I been reading about and hearing on the news that give computers.

	M:	Well, I mean I can come up with, well, oh I did have a question actually that kind of backtracks. You mention different black neighborhoods here, were there names for the different black neighborhoods?

	D:	Yes. Overhill was subdivision. M:	Subdivision.





	D:	Over on Crawford Street and Clay Street that was Hilltop. And on Fourth Street and where Stevens School was, that was Springside.

	B:	Right.



	D:	And over where I live on the other side of town, that’s Hillside. And on the — that’s on the south side of Highway 90. And on the north side of Highway 90 is Shaw Addition. And a lot of people’s referring to it as Shaw Port. But on the map it’s Shaw Addition.

	B:	Okay. Where the Germantown [Inaudible 01:16:02]?



	D:	Germantown is over on the same place as Shaw Addition or Shaw Port. B:	It’s the same place?

	D:	Mm-hmm.



	B:	Across the street or it’s the same?



	D:	Yes. You know where Sarah, Carol, and [Inaudible 01:16:14]. B:	Uh-huh.

	D:	All of that.



	B:	Okay.



	D:	Shaw Addition, Germantown. B:	Okay.





	M:	Did people travel through the different neighborhoods or if you lived in one place did you kinda stay —

	D:	I didn’t listen.



	M:	Did people travel to the different neighborhoods —



	D:	Oh, one that was just a nice little hike, a nice little walk. You’d walk on Sunday afternoon and Saturday, you’d — children you went to school with were in Shaw Quarter would walk over here, you would walk over there, you just — that’s how you learned where the people live. And of course we was all walking. And for a while Quincy had a — the City of Quincy had a street bus, and it went from not quite out there where Piggly Wiggly is now to on Jefferson Street all the way out to — you know where the Quincy Liquors is on Highway 90?

	SD:	Mm-hmm.



	D:	It went on the top of the hill, it didn’t go down the hill to Quincy Liquors. It stopped on top of the hill. And that was the route east and west. And north and south it went down to Martin Luther King Drive back up to Highway 90. And that was the route of the Quincy —

	B:	So what about Lake Talquin? It used to go out there — D:	It didn’t go any further than Martin Luther King.

	B:	What? I thought it went there way down the road.



	D:	Unh-uh. Well, it seemed as if Martin Luther King but you know it was — what store was it? It was a store down there, and that was where it turned around.





	B:	Oh. See we were not allowed to go down that far. D:	Uh-huh, you got off at the [Inaudible 01:18:05].

	B:	Yeah.



	D:	Mm-hmm.



	B:	When we was kids we wasn’t allowed to go cross Pat Thomas Highway. D:	Ever.

	B:	Had to stay on this — the other side of Pat Thomas Highway.



	D:	But that wasn’t — and that last for quite a few years and as I said after World War II then more black people went down in cars. And I remember the street bus ran about ten or twelve years after that and then it was phased out. And we don’t even have a taxi in Quincy, now.

	B:	Don’t have a movie theater.



	D:	A lot of the older men that had got old, they kept they taxi license but the Chevy



was the last taxi, Corporal Rogers.



	B:	Oh I wasn’t here during that.



	D:	Oh, well, you know he went up the state just like you all did and he retired and he came back and he drove taxi for a while. But then Chevy stopped driving. And so that’s the — we don’t have one. If you don’t have a car you gotta get a neighbor or somebody because we don’t have any taxis.

	LD:	Now you have the [Inaudible 01:19:11] buses. You got the —





	D:	Huh?



	LD:	You got the —



	D:	Well, but now you almost have to — if you want to go to Walmart, want to come out of here. But you got to be in good health to go stand up on the corner and get on the little…

	B:	Shuttles, they call it.



	D:	The shuttle. And if you just going to the doctor for a check-up, maybe if they go near your doctor’s office, you know for just a check-up. But if you ill or not well it won’t help you to try and ride the shuttle because they go down the main thoroughfares and you walk because you live two blocks off the main [Inaudible 01:19:52]. And so when everything — and for people going shopping now [Inaudible 01:19:57] maybe, if you want to go pay some bills or pick up a few packages but if you got anything to carry you never did wait. Because as you get older you can’t, ten and twenty pounds, ooh, you can’t make it.

	LD:	Well I just know they got the one that go to Havana, which I haven’t gone on yet, and they said the one that go to Havana, Chattahoochee, and —

	B:	They can go all over.



D:   Yeah, well it go all over Gadsden County. But [Inaudible 01:20:24] you got to be in good health to use it, because you — it’s always a pick-up spot and it’s not at your door.





	LD:	I saw a little sign on it the other day I said one day I was gonna call saying that you want to go out an alternate route or something and you have to call the number.

	D:	Well I don’t know but I, from my reading it in the paper — and I know the people I see ride it because Gladys Smith over — Ms. Alice daughter and she have to walk up to the highway.

	B:	Pat Thomas up there? Winn Dixie? D:	Hmm?

	B:	See a lot of them go to Winn Dixie and take the bus.



	D:	Yeah, because they’ll be out there sometime in the morning, it be so many out there the bus is crowded. And the people that ride bicycles, you know they have their hook for your — you can take your bike. On the shuttle. And of course for people that are in pretty good health going to Tallahassee for one dollar you can’t beat it.

	B:	They have a special bus for that don’t they? For the handicapped? LD:	I don’t remember.

	D:	I don’t — I think — B:	Yeah, I think they do.

	D:	Yeah, I think they have one for — B:	Handicapped.





D:  That they can roll your wheelchair on. I know Big Bend have the handicapped thing. But they have — they require you to be, it might take you three hours to get where you’re going.

	B:	Hmm.



	D:	Because I thought — try to use them getting Mama to the doctor. But they wanted you to be ready, out in your wheelchair.

	B:	Oh they have you drive up and you get in.



	D:	Yes. And then you might be — they might pick you up at your apartments at ten o’clock right, eleven o’clock. Right here out there at the medical center they might want you to be ready three hours early.

	B:	Didn’t it take you all the way around before you get to your apartment?



	D:	Yes, but they’ll try and get you there on time but they’re picking up other people. And with Mama being her age that was too long for her to have to be in transit.

	M:	I mean, I can always keep coming up with questions and things but we’ve gone for quite a while. I better also get back to Gainesville. Yeah.

	LD:	You could go on the Red Coach [Laughter]. You know?



	M:	I could try it. Well, do you have any final thoughts or comments you’d want to add? I’d be happy to come back sometime and ask some more.

	D:	Well I’m contributing what I thought and if you can think of something to ask me you can ask me, if not if you feel you need to come back I pray that the Lord bless us to still be here.





	LD:	Oh, I forgot, there’s some people who I mentioned who still around. As I told you Mr. Clarence Bryant, you can look his number up if you want. He was very active

—



	D:	Look in the phonebook and you can give him his address. LD:	And phone number, that’s good.

	D:	There should be a phonebook right under that chair.



	M:	Well here I can stop the recorder I guess, but thank you very much. [End of interview]





Transcribed by: Elery Ostertag, June 21, 2019 Audit edited by: Ryan Morini and Charity Kelly

Final edited by: Sandra Romero, November 17, 2020