AAHP 011B; Mitchell; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 011B Arnold Mitchell African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Mike McCoy on June 10, 2010 57 minutes | 28 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Arnold Mitchell talks about growing up in Gainesville, Florida’s music scene. In this interview he speaks about both his experience growing up in a segregated Gainesville and about his life in show business. Arnold Mitchell was signed to a contract when he was only ten years old after a record producer heard him singing in the market. After his ninth grade year Mr. Mitchell moved from Tampa to Gainesville to live with his grandmother and uncle, attending Lincoln High School. When he was fifteen years old, he and his band were asked by the University of Florida to perform at Gator Growl, and he describes the integration of Gator Growl through the process. After this performance, Mr. Mitchell began touring around the United States and was tutored while on the road. He performed in many major places including the Apollo theatre and the Ed Sullivan show.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; University of Florida]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 011B

Interviewee: Arnold Mitchell [Paul Cohen in background] Interviewer: Mike McCoy

Date: June 10, 2010



	MM:	All right. And I was just wondering if you could tell me what your life was like growing up in Gainesville.

	AM:	Well, my life was pretty good growing up in Gainesville. I came here in 1959, after I did my 9th year at Howard W. Blake in Tampa, Florida. I did the remaining of my years in Lincoln High. When I came, it was segregated. We had to ride the bus to school. Didn't have many able to go to GHS or P.K. Yonge. We was in segregation. And my years at Lincoln High through twelfth grade was very good. We got along as a family there. And I think that some of the kids hated when segregation came in, you know? Because we was more as a family, the way it was during segregation. A lot of peoples didn't want integration to come in,

you know? But I guess by the change, it was time for it to happen, and which they phased Lincoln out, in 1970 I believe, because I had left there in [19]62. Other than that, in Gainesville, it was—it was all right for me. I was an entertainer.

	MM:	Yeah.



	AM:	So I was able to do a lot of things in Gainesville a lot of Blacks couldn't do, by being an entertainer and in show business. Because people accepted us, my group, Little Jake and the Blenders. And it was all right for us. And I think a lot of the peoples was enjoyable to them, because, like, during the time we had segregation in Gainesville, we had a lot of Black entrepreneurs, had their own business and everything that was doing very well. But when integration came

in, that took all that away from them, you know? That just destroyed that market,









of Blacks owning they own businesses and all that, because you had—when integration came in, you begin to get a whole lot of competition. And that just knocked the Black man market completely out.

	MM:	What was your experience like being, you know, the first African-American band to play for Gator Growl?

	AM:	Well, it was an honor for me, because that showed the Black community that that was something that we had to offer. And in show business, that's a market that everybody love. And when we played for Gator Growl, that just opened the doors wide open. A lot of people didn't look for that to happen, but it happened.

		MM:		And you were only sixteen at that time, right? AM:	I was fifteen.

	MM:	Fifteen?



	AM:	Yeah, fifteen. MM:	Wow.

	AM:	That was in 1960.



	MM:	And was there any backlash from that that you experienced, or—



	AM:	No, because during that time, we—the University of Florida loved us. The student body. You know, we had something that they enjoyed: music. And it was a man that they wanted us to be on the Gator Growl. Because during that time, the student body had the input into what you want at the Gator Growl during that time, you know? The students had a lot of involvement. And we was one that they wanted; so we was a part of it. And it just started from there. But they did, they put us in—we had a float and everything when we played Gator Growl. They









put the kids in Lincoln High, they went to school for half a day, that they would be able to come to the parade downtown.

	MM:	That's really cool.



	AM:	Yeah, you know? So, it was an honor, you know. It was an honor that we was able to do that; one of the chosen ones that made it possible to open the gates, to open the doors for Blacks to be able to go to University of Florida. Not only by going to University of Florida and their Homecoming festivities, but by doing that, we opened the doors in other ways, that Blacks could be able to register to go to the University of Florida. You know?

	MM:	Yeah.



	AM:	And that was a good move.



	MM:	And after that, you started playing for fraternity houses— AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	—and sororities? AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	Did you do that throughout the week during high school, or did you just do it on weekends or—

	AM:	No. I did it whenever they came up. In other words, whatever the University of Florida had coming up, we was number one to be asked to do it. Okay? But every weekend, we were booked solid at the University of Florida. Played all the big fraternity houses.

	MM:	What was that like; going to high school and doing that?









AM:  Oh, man. It was something, man! We felt good. We felt like we was on top of the world. Like we was millionaires, being able to play at the University of Florida like that, you know? And we played other colleges too. We played at Florida State.

We played—we was all over.



	MM:	Wow. That's awesome. Especially to be able to do that in high school.



	AM:	Yeah. It was a honor. And we all was young, you know. And today, we have— like, one of the original members who was in the group, he became the first Black police sergeant in Gainesville. His name was Ernest Long. He was the first Black police sergeant in this town. And he came out of our group, Little Jake and the Blenders.

	MM:	That's amazing.



	AM:	Yeah.



	MM:	Did you experience any difference from Tampa to here in the segregation or—? AM:	Tampa and here?

	MM:	Yeah, when you moved here from Tampa.



	AM:	Well, Tampa to here. I was in music in Tampa. It was the Skyline. That was the group that I played with. Big Joe Turner, he was a national recording artist. And my life coming up in Tampa just like it was here, in a sense, because they likeded me down there. But when I was in Tampa, I didn't have a singing group then. I was alone. And during that period, they wanted to make me another Frankie Lymon, and the teenager, Little Willie John. Willie John the one that put out the big record called Feel. Patti Page did it. And that's the way my career begin, in Tampa. And the reason I came to Gainesville, because my uncle, when









we grew up together—see, I was the only child, and I was the oldest grandchild of sisters’, brothers' childrens. And I was very close to my Uncle Leonard; and age-wise and everything. And when his momma, which was my grandmother, came and got him and took him back to Gainesville, oh, that did something to me, because I wanted to follow him. And that's how I got to Gainesville, you know. My grandmother told me, said, well—grandmomma say, “When you get in ninth grade, I'm going come get you, and we're going let you finish school in Gainesville.” And that's how I started up in Gainesville. That's how I got to Gainesville.

	MM:	How did you get into the, you know, performing and recording so early?



	AM:	Well, I had a good manager. I was discovered, professionally. I was singing one day in Sweetwater Poultry Market, and my manager—who became my manager—heard me singing as he was talking to one of his employees on the phone. And he asked him, said, “Who is that singing?” And the boy that told him who I was, his name was Columbus Warren. And it started from there. He say, “Well, you keep him right there until I come. I want to see that young man singing like that.” And when he came, that's—he heard me singing; and from that moment on, he became close to my family—my mother and my father—and told me that he wanted to promote me to be another singer. And he spent money behind me. And I signed a ten-year contract with him. And he spent a lot of money behind me. And then we went to Chicago in 1957. That's when I first recorded for Chess Records. And my first record that I recorded for Chess Records was called Darling, Darling, Baby. Chess Records was an international









recording company out of Chicago; one of the biggest recording companies in the United States during that time. And I recorded for Chess Records, for Phil Chess and Leonard Chess. And my career, it started from there.

MM: Wow. Did you go out there with just him, or—with just your manager, or did your family go?

	AM:	No. My road manager was Johnny Flintroy. My mother had a lot of trust in him.



And as a matter of fact, I had a tutor for three months out of the year. As I travelled on the road, they was teaching me; make sure my classes was still up to par in school. They prepared me for everything that I had to have. And then I met Sunny Thompson. Sunny Thompson is the A&R director at Chess Records. That's the one that do recordings. I was on the road with him for what, two months, as we played with Roy Hamilton. Roy Hamilton was a big entertainer during that time; one that put out “Don't Let Go,” “Unchained Melody.” And I played out in Topeka, Kansas; Wichita; played all out there. And I was twelve years old. I was twelve years old.

	MM:	I can't imagine traveling the country, you know— AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	Playing at twelve.



	AM:	Yeah. I was traveling the road with B.B. King. B.B. King was like my godfather. Yeah. He's the one that inspired me and gave me motivation to

continue. And he would always be there for me if I need it. And he opened a lot of doors for me also, and club dates, you know? As I travelled with him, opened the show for him. I opened a show for James Brown. Jackie Wilson. Sam Cooke.









Aretha Franklin. Opened the door for her—opened a show for her. Show business been very good to me. I've had hit records. The biggest hit record I ever had was Work With Me Annie, Not a Chance In a Million, and The Ways of a Woman is Never Known.

	MM:	And did you find that the education was better when you were actually in school, or from your tutors?

	AM:	Well, it was good for me when I was tutored, because I was the only one that she was working with. You know, so it was good there. She devoted all her time to me. I didn't have to worry about having thirty or more kids in a classroom, you know? And it was good for me. I used to miss regular school. I used to always—I couldn't wait to get back.

	MM:	Yeah. I would think working one-on-one is a little more— AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	Individual and keeps you focused. AM:	Focus, right.

	MM:	Excuse me. When you were at Lincoln High School, I know you said it was like a family.

	AM:	Yeah.



	MM:	How was that so?



	AM:	Well, they was close together. They were closely-knit. It was a Black school.



Eidn't have integration. Everybody knew everybody. And it was just exactly like a family. You know, it's—whatever we did, we did it all together. We couldn't wait to go see the football game, basketball game. Closely-knit. We knew everything









about each other. As I said, a lot of them want—did not accept integration when integration came in. You know, just like the White people didn't want it, a whole lot of Blacks didn't want it. And the thing that had to come together. But all in all, I don't think we had a lot of disturbment in integration in this here city.

	MM:	Mmhm. I know in 1969, there were some protests and riots, or sit-ins.



	AM:	In [19]69, I was up north. I had my own record company, my own business in Detroit. I had my own—I was on my own then. I was doing very well. So, I was not here. See, I left Gainesville in 1962. You know? But during that time, I could just tell you up to that point.

	MM:	Yeah. Did you experience any different situations, or racial prejudices on the road, like, depending on where you were in the country?

	AM:	Oh, yeah, yeah. Of course I did! But like I said, being in show business, you're more acceptable to the peoples, you know? Of course, I've had a name called. But I also had Whites who came to me and told me—and they tell them, say, “Look, don't do that!” You see? “Don't call that man out his name, this and that,” you know? I had that. But like, being in show business, it was more easier. See, I'm going tell you something: without show business, we would not have had integration to this here day, I don't believe. You see, because show business is something that—that can smooth the world out. Because people love to see actors, singers, or whatever, you know? And you know, like, when I was coming up, when they had bathroom, you had to go to the back and this and that? I didn't have to go to the back a lot of time. I went right to the front, because I was









singing there. You see? And that's a difference, you know? That's a difference. And show business, man, made it possible, a lot of places to be integrated.

	MM:	Yeah. I think show business, especially, like, you know, performing and singing is one of the great equalizers.

	AM:	Yeah, yeah. That's right! It has a lot to do with it, you know. MM:	What was your favorite subject in school?

AM: Mine? MM: Yeah. AM: Math. MM:  Math?

	AM:	And music.



	MM:	Did you participate in any of the, like, band or music department at Lincoln High School?

	AM:	Yeah. I was in the choir. I had scholarships, when I was in the choir, at five colleges.

	MM:	Wow. Did you go to college, or did you just sign—



	AM:	Yeah. I went to Cookman. Yeah. I went there for two years. MM:	How did you like it?

	AM:	It was all right. But like I said, my thing was entertaining. And I wanted to make that money when it was coming to me. Just like in a sense—like, that time, that would have been big money to me, like kids today that get offers to play pro football and all that. You know, they say they want to take the money now and









get the education later. And that's what that was about during that time. Yeah. But my favorite subject was music and math.

	MM:	Why math? I hate math, so— [Laughter]



	AM:	Well, it was a good thing. It was good for me, because I went in business, and I wanted to know figures, you know? I wanted to know figures. [Laughter] And I learned it! But music; I used to like science. And I played sports. Sports another thing I like to do.

	MM:	What sports did you play?



	AM:	I played football, I ran track, and I played basketball for Lincoln High. And I was very good.

	MM:	Yeah. I played football and baseball in high school. AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	What positions did you play?



	AM:	Well, me, I played receiver. I was receiver on football. And I was a guard—I was a point guard when I played basketball. And as a matter of fact, I got the record today for running track for Lincoln High School.

	MM:	Really?



	AM:	Yeah. I was fast. My thing was the 220 and the 440. MM:	Nice.

	AM:	Yeah. So I ran.



	MM:	What was your favorite sport, or was it track? AM:	Huh?

	MM:	What was your favorite sport?









AM: Football. MM: Football? AM:  Yeah.

	MM:	Yeah. Same here. AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	And did any teachers play an important role in your life?



	AM:	Yes, yes. Ms. Geraldine Miller. She's deceased now. Ms. Daphne Duval. She was a dean; Ms. Duval-Williams, she was a dean at Lincoln High. And Mr.

Hightower. That was it. That was three teachers that was very instrumental to me. Joseph Hightower, he was my track coach and football coach.

	MM:	Was this just because they were nice to you, or did they play a specific role?



	AM:	They played a specific role, because they—I was a good athlete, and plus, I was a good student in school. And I had all—I've always kept up my grades. Even though I was travelling on the road, I still was a good student. I finished. That's an accomplishment. You’ll find a lot of people that was singing during that time. But see, my singing different, because I was on the road. I was singing professionally. I've been singing professionally ever since 1956. I played the Apollo Theater in New York five times. I played the Howard Theater in Washington twice. I played the Uptown Theater in Philadelphia two times. All these here was big theaters, you know, where you have big shows coming in.

You come in there ten days at a time; all the big acts. All the Motortown Revue, all them, they played these here places. Because we played at the Apollo









Theater, we played ten days a while. When they book a show there, they book them for ten days.

	MM:	And so you would play every night for ten days?



	AM:	We'd play every night. And we'd do something like four and five shows a day. MM:	Wow. How long would each show last?

	AM:		About forty-five minute. Forty-five minute. You was having a line at the Apollo Theater trying to get in.

	MM:	Geez. That's really cool, to be able to play one of those places. AM:	Yeah. Yeah.

	MM:	And how long did you tour for? ‘Til how old were you? AM:	Huh?

	MM:	How long did you tour for? AM:	I toured on the road?

	MM:	Yeah.



	AM:	I was twelve. I toured up on the road until about thirty, about thirty years old. MM:	And were they about three months each road trip, or was it sporadic?

	AM:	Sometimes we be going the road for eight months out of the year. MM:	Wow.

	AM:	See, then I got into my own business. I had my own recording company, and I had two nightclubs in Detroit. And I had some hit records on other artists. James [inaudible 25:17]. They recorded Free At Last. The [inaudible 25:20]. They recorded Born Free.

	MM:	And did you stop at thirty because you had family, or—?









	AM:	Did I stop? I stopped doing that travelling because I went and did my own business there. But I still was singing, but I didn't travel like I used to travel when I first started out.

	MM:	Yeah. Were you playing your clubs a lot? AM:	I played a lot of clubs in Detroit, up north.

	MM:	And were there any big events that, you know, inspired you when you were younger?

	AM:	Big events?



	MM:	Yeah. Like, we talked in class about Jackie Robinson first playing baseball, or big events like that, or the march in DC.

	AM:	Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course. Yeah, of course. Hm. When I was coming up, I used to see Blacks in football, basketball, people playing at Carnegie Hall— Blacks. I was influenced by seeing Cab Calloway, Billy Eckstein. All these here people played at Carnegie Hall. Because Blacks weren't able to do all that until they did it, you know? And of course, I was motivated. I wanted to do that, too. And like, my dream was always being able to play the Apollo Theater. And that was the most joyful part of my life.

	MM:	You guys played that five times.



	AM:	Yeah. And the first time I played there, I played with Jackie Wilson. That was the most important part of my life, because that was a thing for Black peoples in show business: playing the Apollo Theater. And like, being on the Ed Sullivan show. [Laughter] If you did them two things there, you done made it.

	MM:	Yeah. When did you first play at the Apollo?









	AM:	Back in 1960—ooh, man! I think it was [19[66. [19]66.



	MM:	Wow. So you were still really young at that point. You were twenty-two? AM:	Yeah. I was young.

		MM:	That's pretty awesome to, you know, get your dream that young. AM:		Yeah, yeah.

	MM:	And when you were at Cookman, did you run track or—? AM:	No, I didn't do nothing. I just sung, that's all. That's all.

	MM:	Was your major in music?



	AM:	I was going to be, but I went for two years; that's all. I had to come out. I wanted to get on the road and make that money!

	MM:	Yeah. That's probably what I would do if I had the chance. AM:	Yeah. That's what I did.

	MM:	I know you talked about some of the people that played at Carnegie Hall. Was there any other musical people that you looked up to in your life?

	AM:	Sam Cooke played the Copa. He played Copa. Jackie Wilson played it. Louie Armstrong played it.

	MM:	And did the church play a you know, major role in your life when you were growing up?

	AM:	Yeah. I came up in church. That's where the music all came from. MM:	From the choir?

	AM:	Yeah.



	MM:	Is it still big in your life? Do you sing in the choir now?



	AM:	I don't sing in the choir now. Mm-mm. But I'm a churchgoer.









	MM:	If you don't mind me asking, what—are you Methodist, Presbyterian? AM:	I'm Baptist.

	MM:	Baptist? In Gainesville, do you remember anything that—any event, I guess, you know, segregation affected you in Gainesville? I know you said it was a little different because you were a performer, but—.

	AM:	That affected me? Well, Gator Growl affected me, until we got integrated.



Because I wanted—a lot of people wanted to go there. And even before I played there, I wanted to go to Gator Growl, but I couldn't go.

	MM:	It was only White people back then at Gator Growl?



	AM:	That's all you had, brother! [Laughter] That's all you had. Blacks couldn't go. I'm telling you now, I was the first one to integrate it; make it possible for Blacks to go there. Blacks couldn't go there. No! As far as Blacks used to go, they'd see

the marines down University Avenue, okay? And they wouldn't cross 13th Street.



	MM:	Wow. So they weren't allowed to cross there?



	AM:	It was just the thing. They'd just—you'd have a conflict, you know?



	MM:	Yeah. And when you played, were they allowed to go that year, Black people? AM:	That's when the gates was open. That's the only reason why they was able to go. MM:	Yeah.

	AM	Because I told them that I would not play for them if they did not open the gates that my peoples be able to come to Florida Gator Growl. And that's when Blacks was able to come there, when they put them ten thousand bleachers in Florida Field.

	MM:	That must have been huge.









	AM:	And not only that, ten thousand bleachers wasn't enough. They had to mingle together. They had to sit together. [Laughter]

	MM:	Mmhm. Could you go to football games back then? AM:	You couldn't go to University of Florida at all!

	MM:	Really? You couldn't go on campus?



	AM:	No, no! No, no! Couldn't go there! If you didn't work at the Florida Field, you weren't able to see no game there. Couldn't do nothing. I'm telling you, when I played the Gator Growl, that opened the doors to everything.

	MM:	Mmhm. Yeah. It's just growing up in the time I did, it's hard to understand that.



	AM:	Yeah. Yeah, yeah! No. Blacks couldn't go to University of Florida. When I appeared at the University of Florida, Little Jake and the Blenders, in 1960, that's when integration begin to happen, that Blacks could be able to participate.

	MM:	Wow. So you were really, you know, a driving force behind that too?



	AM:	You can call it that if you want to; that's what it is. That's what it is. And I'm in the university archive. I'm in the archive, Florida archive. They know about it.

	MM:	Yeah. That's awesome.



	AM:	Yeah. You know, Blacks couldn't do nothing at the University of Florida. Nothing. MM:	And when you did this, did that open the—you know, I guess, gate for other

	Black bands? AM:	Yep. Yep. Yep.

	MM:	It's amazing that you were only sixteen at that point, you know. AM:	I was fifteen.

	MM:	Fifteen, sorry. And had that much control of you know, what's going on.









	AM:	Fifteen years old. I'm going tell you something: The student body has the power for anythings to happen right at any state facilities. If the students want it, regardless of what the head got to say—because the student have the power. And as I said before, the students at University of Florida enjoyed Little Jake and the Blenders singing.

	MM:	Was that overwhelming for you to be kind of put in that position of playing at Gator Growl for the first time?

	AM:		Oh, man, that was something big. I'm trying to tell you, when they announced that they going be able to do it, when they announced that Blacks would be able to come, that was something! I'm telling you, what they did, see, they had a parade and everything. The school shut down half the day that we could be able to get ready to go to the homecoming Gator Growl; see the parade, get ready to go out to Florida Field.

	MM:	That's awesome. That's really cool. AM:	Yeah. That's how it happened.

	MM:	Yeah. And so at this point, had you already been playing at fraternities and sororities?

	AM:	Yes, I had.



	MM:	For how long were you doing that before Gator Growl?



	AM:	We had been playing there in [19]60 that whole—at the beginning of 1960, we was playing then. And we used to turn Florida Field—we used to turn all the sororities, and everywhere we played, boy; they went wild! Yeah. They went wild.









And see, I've always had an integrated band. See, I had a singing group, and my band was White.

	MM:	Wow. How did you get involved with them? AM:	Huh?

	MM:	Like, how did the whole band come together?



	AM:	Well, it was a lawyer. His name was Frank Buccaferno. He was a student at the University of Florida. He was in law school. He played drums. And he heard

us sing. And he came to me, he say, “Man, we need to get together. We need to pull together, get a group.” Say, “I got the band, you got the singing group.” And it started from there. Started rehearsing. And Frank Buccaferno, we played together all the way up until 1962. Frank was in college at University of Florida Law School. And when he—then we went to Utica, New York. We recorded in New York with King Records; Little Jake and the Blenders. Took the band up there with us and everything. We stayed there a whole summer. And we played on the same show with Chubby Checker during that time. Chubby Checker had out “Twist.” It was in Utica, New York.

	MM:	After you stopped playing with them, did you just go out on your own or did you have a specific band you would play on?

	AM:	Well, I went single in 1965. I left the Blenders, because Ernest, who was the first Black sergeant here, he went to Vietnam. And the other ones, they went in the Service, also. And the original members of the Blenders' name: Elijah Walker.

We called him Buzzy. He was the second tenor. Harold Lewis, who is deceased. He was a first tenor. Henry Lewis sung baritone. Ernest Long was a bass. He









sung bass. Those are the original Blenders. There's three of them living, and one deceased.

	MM:	Excuse me. I know you said you moved here with your grandmother? AM:	Mmhm.

	MM:	Was she the one that mainly raised you also in Tampa or—



	AM:	No, no. My aunts in—my momma and aunts, they raised all of us, see. Because I got Cuban in me. My family is really Cuban—

	MM:	Yeah.



	AM:		You know? You know, we all used to stay in the same house together. That's how we use to—you know, they raised me.

	MM:	So you just kind of got raised by everyone in the family? AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	And it was a big family? AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	How many people did you live with, or—? AM:	We had about ten in the house.

	MM:	Wow.



	AM:	Yeah.



	MM:	And that included all your aunts and cousins?



	AM:	No, we living in projects in Tampa; west Tampa project. Yeah.



	MM:	So when you moved here, was that a big change, just, you know, living with your grandma?









	AM:	Yeah. Well, I fell in love with Gainesville, because I used to come up here every summer. I used to come up here every summer. When my uncle moved up here with his momma, I used to come up here every summer, and I'd stay the summer about a month. I would have to go back to Tampa. I used to hate that. I used to hate going back to Tampa. And I told my grandma, I say, “I want to finish school here.”

	MM:	Where did you go to school in Tampa? AM:	Howard W. Blake.

	MM:	Howard?



	AM:	Howard W. Blake.



	MM:	And was that much different than Lincoln High School? AM:	Not really.

	MM:	Was it the same family-based— AM:	It was segregated.

	MM:	Yeah.



	AM:	Yeah, mmhm.



	MM:	Do you think that the integration kind of ruined that— AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	That family and community?



	AM:	Yeah. Like I said, there was a lot of peoples that didn't want integration. But integration is good. It is good, and it's not good. Because the bad part about it, because it killed all of the Black entrepreneurs' businesses. You see? During that time, Blacks could hire a hundred peoples to work. But now, all the Black









businesses just been destroyed. Don't have no Black businesses in Gainesville. Because—you know, we used to have hamburger places, stuff like that Blacks could work, that owned. You know? But when integration came in, that destroyed all that, because the big, major companies took over.

	MM:	Just because people could go there now, the businesses kind of fell apart?



	AM:	Business fell apart, because by integrating, people started going to higher places. That killed us. That just like during the time I had my own nightclubs, we could look to have a packed house every Saturday night. But now, you can't, because by having all these other White clubs done came up, integrated clubs done came up, they don't go to the Black clubs no more. That's over with. You don't have them like that no more. Because Black is integrated. White is integrated. You know? That's why the club business is like it is today.

	MM:	When did you move back from Detroit to Gainesville?



	AM:	I came back here in 1982, but I left again, though. I was a chef cook at University of Bridgeport fifteen years. I was on the executive board of the union of 1199 Healthcare Workers Union, FLCIO—which SCIC, they got it now.

	U1:	SCIU, or—?



	AM:	SCIU, yeah.



	MM:	What was that like, being on the executive board of the Union?



	AM:	I was on the executive board of the union. In other words, we took care of all the business in the district that I was on. See, I was up in New England district all the way from—all the way from Connecticut to Maine; Boston, mainly. I was on the executive board. You were voted on there. I was voted to be on the executive









board of the union. We made the decisions for the union. I was on the executive board of the union for eight years.

	MM:	And what did your kind of duties entail for that? AM:	Huh?

	MM:	Did you have to go back and negotiate between people or—?



	AM:	Yeah, we negotiated. We negotiated union contracts and all that, you know?



Yeah.



		MM:		And that was when you were up in the northeast? AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	Where were you living at that point? AM:	Huh?

	MM:	Where were you living at that point? AM:	Where was I living?

	MM:	Yeah.



	AM:	I was living in Norwalk. MM:	Norwalk?

	AM:	Norwalk, Connecticut. I was head chef at the University of Bridgeport. MM:	How did you get into doing that?

	AM:	Well, I always likeded cooking, you know. So I took—I went to cooking school and got into that. And I was backing away from being in entertainment for a while.

	MM:	Did you enjoy doing that?



	AM:	Oh, I love to cook. To this day.









	MM:	I've always wished I could cook. I try, but I'm not very good at it. AM:	Yeah. I love to cook.

	MM:	And why did you start to back away from the performing and entertainment business?

	AM:	Well, I had kids. I was married. I slowed down a little bit. And after my business in Detroit folded up, you know. So that have a lot to do with it.

	MM:	How many kids did you have? AM:	I got eight.

	MM:	Eight? Whoa! That's a lot of kids. Did you always want a big family like that?



	AM:	My choice, I always wanted two kids; a boy and a girl. And the lord blessed me with the first two; a boy and a girl. And it just kept on going. [Laughter]

	MM:	How old are they now? What are their ages? AM:	My oldest child is forty-six.

	MM:	Did they go to college or—? AM:	Yeah, mmhm.

	MM:	And did they like the music, or sing in the choir also? AM:	Yeah, yeah.

		MM:		Where did they grow up? Did you move back after they were older? AM:	They grew up in Detroit.

	MM:	They grew up in Detroit? AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	And is Gainesville your favorite place that you've lived, or is it Detroit, Norwalk?









	AM:	I like Gainesville, but that retirement for me. I likeded Tampa. Detroit. I don't know which one; they all was good to me.

	MM:	Yeah. Just different or—?



	AM:	Yeah, you know, they all different to me.



	MM:	I think the warm weather down here is a little nicer. AM:	The warm weather, yeah, mmhm.

	MM:	Yeah. Yeah. I remember I have to go up to Iowa for Christmas, and it would just be miserable; just freezing.

	AM:	Yeah.



	MM:	Detroit and Connecticut seem like they'd be pretty cold. AM:	Yeah. I used to like Detroit, though. I used to love the snow.

	MM:	And your two nightclubs, were they just singing nightclubs, or were they dance clubs?

	AM:	Nightclubs. I had liquor and everything. Clubs. I used to have entertainment there and everything. Yeah.

	MM:	Did you enjoy doing that? AM:	Yeah. I was making money! MM:	Yeah?

	AM:	Making money.



	MM:	Did anybody in Detroit not like, you know, like, a Black singer or something owning those clubs, or was there pressure from any other businesses or White businesses?

	AM:	No, no. You got plenty of Black owners, club owners up north in Detroit.









	MM:	Who was your favorite person to sing with—to sing with or open for? AM:	B.B. King.

	MM:	B.B. King? Why? Was he just a nice guy, or did you like his music? AM:	He was the one that started me out.

	MM:	Yeah.



	AM:	I was in school. I was going to Blake High School in Tampa, and he played in our gymnasium, and I sung with his band. My first song I ever learned was by B.B. King, called “Woke Up This Morning.”

	MM:	And how old were you when you did that? Thirteen or—? AM:	Yeah. Fourteen.

	MM:	Fourteen? Since you got into this business so early, was there, you know, kind of a tendency for you—I know you said you did all the work in school, but did you ever just think, “Why am I doing this?”

	AM:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. We have good times; we have bad times.



	MM:	Yeah. Because I can see myself, you know, if I'm playing for all these fraternities, and then I open up Gator Growl when I'm fifteen years old, just being like, “Forget school.” Did your grandmother kind of keep you in line about school or your uncle?

	AM:	Yeah. I always wanted to go to school. You know, that was a part of my thing, you know. I'm going finish school, now! But my grandmother, boy, made sure, made sure I finished school when I came up here. “I don't mind you singing, boy, but you going get up in the morning and make sure you get on that bus, go to school!” That my grandmother. Because I always did love to sing, even in my—









when I was six years old when I was singing for Wholesome Bread. Used to have talent shows in the projects. Used to have contests. I used to always win the talent show and win that bread to take home. Used to have little, small loaves like that?

	MM:	Yeah.



	AM:	And they'd give them to you after you done won. Man, I used to win sometimes fifteen or twenty loaves of that bread. I'd take it home. I was six years old.

	MM:	That's amazing.



	AM:	Yep. Six years old. And they used to come in the projects every month, and boy, we couldn't wait for them to get there, to get that bread to take home. [Laughter]

	MM:	Is there just anything else about your experience that you'd like to tell me or—? AM:	That's it.

	MM:	Yeah.



	AM:	God been good to me.



	MM:	Yeah. Seems like you got to accomplish all the goals you set out in your life.



	AM:	God been good to me. He been good to me. And he still working with me, you know? This man has a lot to do. He—God introduced me to Heaven. It's like I'm getting back into it again, you know? He has a lot to do with it. Like he's told about—you say, “Don't you never talk about a fight if you don't talk about Joe Frazier.” So I'm going tell you the same thing: don't never talk about a promoter unless you talk about Paul Cohen. Because he had a lot to do with me revising myself again, you know?

	MM:	Are you enjoying that, playing again?









	AM:	Yes, I am. I done been revamped again, motivated again. MM:	That's awesome.

	AM:	Make me feel like I'm thirteen years old again. MM:	When's the next time you play?

	AM:	The 22nd. MM:	22nd?

	AM:	Yeah.



	C:	Blues Bar and Grill in Palatka.



	AM:	Palatka, Florida. You didn't come to the Bo Diddley downtown we played?



	MM:	I couldn't. It was this past weekend; right? Yeah. I had to go to Orlando to help my friend move.

	AM:	Oh, boy! We had about fifteen hundred people there. MM:	Really?

	AM:	It was good.



	MM:	Wow. I'm going try to come to this one, on the 22nd.



	AM:	Yeah. Well, you just keep on the internet there, and you’ll see our events where we playing on.

	C:	We've got a—are you on the Facebook? MM:	I looked at that, but you know—is it a group?

	C:	Well, there's a group Facebook, and then there's his personal Facebook. MM:	Okay. I'll get on both of those, then, so I can try and get to a show.

	C:	Okay. And then the Myspace, I think we listed it, too. MM:	Okay.









	C:	Let's see if they have an address here. Yep. 714 St. Johns Avenue. AM:	That's about it?

	C:	And Jock Mitchell's Rose Room. That was the name of the two clubs he had in Detroit—

	AM:	Uh-huh.



	U1:	Named after his wife.



	MM:	Did you meet your wife in Detroit? AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	How old were you when you met her? AM:	Ooh! Twenty.

	MM:	Twenty? And did you get married soon after meeting her or a couple years? AM:	Yeah.

	MM:	All right. Well, thank you very much for all the information. AM:	Okay. All right.

	MM:	Thank you very much.



	AM:	Yeah. I hope that do something for you.



	MM:	It's really amazing just to hear about how young you were, and all the stuff you did.

	AM:	Yeah. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 6, 2017



	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 16, 2019