AAHP 496; Seabrooks; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 496 LeRoy Seabrooks Jr.

Interviewed by Allison Mitchell on June 18, 2017 26 minutes | 14 pages



Abstract: In this interview, LeRoy Seabrooks Jr. speaks about his time in the Air Force after graduating from Howard Academy High School. In the Air Force, Mr. Seabrooks Jr. was a policeman, and after leaving the military he tried to run for Chief of Police in Jefferson County. Mr. Seabrooks Jr. also talks about how Monticello has changed, and how it used to be segregated.



Keywords: [African American History Project; Air Forice, Military, Segregation, Monticello, Jefferson County]



AAHP 496

Interviewee: LeRoy Seabrooks Jr. Interviewer: Allison Mitchell

Date: June 18, 2017



	M:	Hi, this is Allison Mitchell with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I am here with Mr. Seagram. Today is June 18, 2017. So, can you start off by telling us where you’re from, what year you were born?

	S:	Yeah. My name is LeRoy Seabrooks Jr. I was born here in Jefferson County. Monticello. Two sisters and myself. One passed away at birth, and my other sister passed away about a few months ago, leaving three sons. And a whole slew of grandchildren. [Laughter] I graduated from Howard Academy High School, and spent three years, eleven months, and twenty-three days in the Air Force as a policeman. Upon discharge from the Air Force, I lived in Chicago.

Worked for a hunker. And he and I fell out. And I went and I had gotten on the police department there—Cook County, and I spent thirty-two years there.

	S:	And I was in charge of the task force. I retired as a lieutenant. And, I had a good time. Met a girl. Married her. I been married fifty-three years.

	M:	Wow. That’s great.



	S:	Yeah. My wife’s an R.N. and she’s actually employed and loves it, now we’ve been here over twenty years now.

	M:	And can you just tell me about growing up here? Like, your family, your parents—

	S:	I grew up here from a semi-wealthy family. My dad lost his eyesight in the army and he was a disabled veteran. And, I guess back in that time, people here were making twelve, fifteen dollars a week, and his retirement was like three hundred.





So I guess back in them days, that’ll make you wealthy. But you know now, three hundred dollars ain’t nothing.

	M:	And then what made you go into the military?



	S:	Well, when I got out of high school, my parents had passed away, and I didn’t have any money to go to college. So I went in the Air Force. I stayed there three years, eleven months, and twenty-three days with a partner. My partner was Sylvester Wade. And I had gotten out and he stayed in. Now he passed away.

	M:	Can you tell me about some of your experiences in the Air Force?



	S:	Yeah. I was a policeman. I took basic training at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas. I was stationed from basic training in Eglin Air Force Base in Florida. From Eglin Air Force base in Florida to Korea. From Korea to Hunter Air Force Base in Savannah, Georgia, where I was discharged.

	M:	Was there any specific memories of being in Korea or being at [inaudible 3:34]?



	S:	Well, Korea. I can remember what they call the “honey buckets.” That’s human manure they used to fertilize their produce and stuff. I’ve seen apples as big as your head. [Laughter] Carrots as big as my thigh. That’s what human manure do for you over there.

	M:	And did you have to deal with any combat while you were over there?



S:  No I didn’t see anything. I happened to be fortunate enough. I was stationed mostly down at K2. That’s Taegu in Korea. I had no wartime, remember just being down there taking it easy.





	M:	So, what was your day-to-day experience of Korea? What did you do? S:	Well, being a policeman: patrol duty, gate duty, and we work shifts.

	M:	And did you feel any racial issues or anything being—‘cause, you know, the time period?

	S:	Not any there while I was there. M:	How about when you were here?

	S:	Here in Monticello, you know you does have it. ‘Cause this is, you just know this is a small town. And you know you’re gonna have racial things. But when I grew up here, it wasn’t really that bad because we used to go to the White school football game, but we had to go down—stand by the goal post. Now, when the boys came over to our games, they sit anywhere they wanted to. So, that really was the difference. But we were good friends, even to the White boys. And that remained right on up until the day, all of us—of course all of them that came on made it passed away now.

	M:	And how about after you got out of the service? Was there any difference?



	S:	After I got out of the service, I had a little job here. I worked in a meat company.



Thirty-five dollars a week. [Laughter] And I’d go to work at four o’clock in the morning, We’d load the trucks. And everything that I drove, a truck in delivery. Fifty, sixty miles away. And sometimes I’d get home at ten o’clock at night. And that was four days a week that we got a delivery.





	M:	And you mentioned that you went into the Force with a partner. How did he pass away?

	S:	Beg your pardon?



	M:	You said that you went into the military with a partner. How did he pass away?



	S:	Yeah, my partner passed away. But he passed away later. Later years. ‘Cause he stayed in, and I’d gotten out. We were very, very close partners in high school and they had the partner thing in the Air Force back then. You and your friend could go in and you’ll stay together. But we stayed together for a while in basic training. And we stayed together at Eglin Air Force Base. And then they sent me off to Korea. Then he went to Tripoli. He went the opposite direction. So, I got a chance to do a lot of traveling in the Air Force. I was in Amira, Dayzar, Tripoli, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Korea, Japan, and the Philippines, China. So, I got a chance to go to quite a few countries.

	M:	Oh, wow. So how was that? You seem like you had a great time.



	S:	Yeah. Well, what happened—I’ll never forget about it. When I was in China, and I bought a monkey. [Laughter] And he cost me fifty cent! And when I [inaudible 08:07] there for thirty days or something, we were there. And I mostly regret, when I got ready to go out to get the monkey away, and I couldn’t bring him back. I couldn’t bring him away from there.

	M:	And so after you retired, you came back here and you worked at a— S:	A meat distributing company.





	M:	And how long did you work there?



	S:	I guess two or three months. And my uncle offered me a deal. If I come to Chicago, he would help me go to school. And I went to Chicago.

	M:	And so how was that, when you went to Chicago? ‘Cause this is a small town.



Chicago is not small at all!



	S:	No. Well, after being in the service, you know—I can understand a little bit more than I would just being stranded here in Monticello for a long time. So I went to Chicago, and I worked for my uncle in his liquor store. He had a couple liquor stores. And I met a lot of people. And they were great. It didn’t take me too long to catch on.

	M:	And what did you do after you left Chicago?



	S:	After I left Chicago, I came back here. Yeah. I graduated from Cranton College, and I came back here. I retired in our own three businesses here.

	M:	You tell me about your businesses?



	S:	Yeah. I own Barbeque Pit. I own a deli and grocery store, and I own the club.



Where you go. [Laughter]



	M:	And so what year did you get married?



	S:	I got married fifty-three years ago, I don’t know when about when it was. [Laughter] I know it was September eleventh, fifty-three years ago. I was twenty- nine years old. Now I’m eighty-two.

	M:	And what was your wife’s name?





	S:	My wife’s name is Lily. Lily Reese Seabrooks. What happened with her, she was born in Mississippi and raised, and her mother and father had, like, six or seven children. And her aunt didn’t have any children. She lived in Chicago. So they took her to Chicago and raised her. She graduated from high school in Chicago and later went to Cook County School of Nursing, where she graduated as a registered nurse. And she retired there after thirty-two years.

	M:	And so you met in Chicago?



	S:	We met in Chicago, yeah. She’s been a doll, though. Yeah, fifty-three years, so I have to still keep her. [Laughter] For the good she has been. [Laughter]

	M:	How have you seen policing in the military change over time?



	S:	Well, it’s different between the military police and civilian police. In the military police, you’re guilty till proven innocent. And out in the world, they call it, you’re innocent until proven guilty. So it’s just the opposite. That’s the way, in the military, you’re guilty till proven innocent. Out here, you’re innocent until proven guilty.

	M:	And can you elaborate on that? Like, any examples—



	S:	Otherwise we charge you with something. But we have to prove it, out here. But in the military, you’re not charged until it’s proven.

	M:	And did you see any serious evidence of this while in the military, like any people you felt like were done wrong or—





	S:	Well, you know, in the military you got a bunch of younger guys and stuff. And when I was there, same thing—drugs. Drugs. See, over in Korea, you can get drugs just like this, you understand? You can just pop a sound, sitting back over there, ‘cause we’re a pipe that along. He’s smoking, see. Yeah, so, Korea was a lot easier to get drugs, you understand? Here. What I’m trying to tell you, it’s more plentiful. Yeah, I will tell you something. You write with the wrong hand. [Laughter]

	U:	Hey, four of our last six presidents were left-handed. I’m gonna take my chances on that. [Laughter]

	S:	Writing with his wrong hand. You see that? M:	Yeah.

	S:	You didn’t think I’d notice that, did you?



	M:	When you came back—I just wanna do a comparison. So, if you said that you felt drugs was one of the biggest issues when in the military, so when you came back and you saw policing here, how did that make you feel? The difference, as far as—it seems kind of cut and dry in the military. It’s an issue, you get charged, whatever happens. But here it’s a lot more—

	S:	Well, I’ve had the opportunity. I ran for Chief of Police here in this town. And I lost by twelve votes. [Laughter] Yeah. But, I didn’t lose. It was a White lady here that left here. She said she couldn’t live in a town, crooked as this. They stole it. You understand? Husband and baby, they left here and moved back down South some place, I don’t know.





	M:	Okay. And what made you decide to run?



	S:	Well, that has been my field for all this time, so in that sense, being a criminology major—I majored in criminology and accounting. And so, that’s how I know what to do!

	M:	And so when you got back, because you wanted to be chief, what issues did you see in the area?

	S:	Well, the way I was looking for a job, see. When I got out of the service, if I could have gotten a job, I wouldn’t have ever gone to Chicago. I would have stayed here in Monticello. My mother was here. After I left and went to Chicago, I said I would like to come back to Monticello. But I wouldn’t come back here looking for a job. And I would like to come back ‘cause I had a mother. My father passed away. But I would have come back. My mother died February twenty-ninth, last year. Guess how old? 105!

	M:	Wow!



	S:	She was born August the thirty-first, in 1910. Yeah. My mother died February twenty-eighth, last year, at 105 years old. And to tell you the truth, right up the street here at the nursing home.

	M:	So how have you seen Monticello change over time?



	S:		Well, really, them old people died out of here. [Laughter] You know what I mean? Them old die-harders, they died out. And the young people, they’re just not like the older people.





	M:	How so?



	S:	Well, the older people want you to say, “yes, ma’am,” and “yes, sir,” to their kids! You understand? Don’t care how old you is, in one of these little Southern towns, and an older person will say—say I’m White, and you’re my daughter, they won’t expect an older person to say, “yes, ma’am” and “no, ma’am” to you! And that’s the way it was. I can tell you, that’s a big change. That doesn’t happen anymore. ‘Cause the younger people, they’re not for it. They don’t go for that. Actually, the young people more or less go for mixing! They even have a mix! ‘Cause I seen the changes here. I had a White lady tell me the other day I was a good-looking Black man. I said, “No woman told me that when I was young!” And I got old! [Laughter] I told my wife what she told me, and she say, “Yeah. White women, they went like crazy about Black men all the time. But they’re bad at showing it.” [Laughter] That’s what she said! That’s what my wife said, “White women was crazy about Black men all the time, but they was afraid, but now they’ll show it!” So, you see, that’s a difference right there.

	M:	So you’re saying the younger people, they think differently. How do you think that has affected Monticello overall? Either the negative things or the positive things. What do you think?

	S:	Well, I think it’s a positive thing to think different. ‘Cause, listen. I told a White boy one time, I’ll never forget that. I said, “If I knew y’all was gonna have everything, and I made myself, I’d have made myself White too!” [Laughter] And you, you, and you would have done the same thing, right? If you know you’re gonna have everything!





	U:	No, man, I love being Black too much!



	S:	But if you know that you’ll have everything White, you’ll go—yeah, I love being Black, too, now. But I would’ve made myself White if I’d known. [Laughter] Look at the schools, man! Look at where you go to school now. You probably—okay, let’s take FSU [Florida State University]. Blacks couldn’t go there! Blacks couldn’t go there. Now, you tell me you want to still remain Black if you know they had everything else? That’s hard for me to believe. But, it could be true, man. I’m not saying you’re lying, but it wouldn’t be for me. [Laughter] If I knew White folks would have everything, and I made myself, I would have made myself White. I want some of the goodies, too! [Laughter]

	M:	So you said, obviously there’s a difference. So, growing up here, what are the things that you felt like you couldn’t get because you were Black?

	S:	Well, we had separate schools. Separate schools. And separate restaurants. You couldn’t—separate toilets. Separate water fountains. You couldn’t even—‘cause that’s kinda bad to think about it, [inaudible 20:25] toilet, you can’t go into the toilet with somebody else. And everybody, Black men and women, they had to go into the same toilet at a lot of places. But the White had two toilets. They had a men’s toilet and they had a women’s toilet. So that’s a great difference right there.

	M:	So how did segregation make you feel growing up, though? You mentioned—



	S:	Well, I didn’t know no better. I’ve been here. They haven’t seen nothing, didn’t know nothing. So I just—





	M:	Went along?



	S:	Right, you go along with the process. I thought that was something that had to be. I had never been nowhere, I have never seen anything but that, so if you don’t know nothing and don’t see nothing but that, so that’s all you can do is go about it.

	M:	And so how would you like to see Monticello change for the future?



	S:	Well, I think it has changed. Just like I say. You can go in any restaurant you want to. You can go—they don’t have that stuff about equal, which was a lie. You can go in any of the toilet, restaurant you want to and sit down and eat, and pay. You understand?

	M:	Yeah.



	S:	So it makes a difference! It makes a difference. Back before, you couldn’t go in the restaurant. You go to the back door and get your little stuff and go. They give it to you.

	M:	So there’s no other changes you could add on to make it better? I mean, it’s already obviously changed a lot since you were a kid, but is there anything else you would want to see done?

	S:	Well, some things that I’m seeing now—it’s moving slowly but it’s going on.



Neighborhoods used to be all Black neighborhoods. But it’s not that anymore. You will find some Whites living in all neighborhoods, and some Blacks living in all neighborhoods. So you don’t have that Black neighborhood and White





neighborhood no more. Nine times out of ten, you gonna find some Whites living over where Blacks live, and you can find some Blacks living over where Whites live.

	M:	Okay. And you said when you were younger, you dealt with segregation.



Basically, “This is all I know, so I just went along with it.” How do you see that Black people act now in Monticello?

	S:	Well, today you won’t go along with what I went along with. And you won’t either. But back then you don’t know no better. But see, you know better now, see? So you won’t go along with what I went along with. ‘Cause just for instance, let’s go back to school and where you are. I see you got some Whites in school. When I went to school, was no Whites there. But I had a good time, now, don’t get me wrong! And if I had to do that again, I would like to see that happen with me. But I would like to see it this way: if I wanted to go to a segregated school I’d go. And if I wanted to go to the other school I’d go.

	M:	And so, just overall, how do you see the Black youth? Like, when you’re going places, how do you see the young Black people carry themselves here?

	S:	Well, I think some of us are good and some of us are bad. And it’s in all races, not only Black. White, too. ‘Cause we’ll find some nice White people. And you’ll find some nasty White people. You’ll find some nice Black people, and you’ll find some nasty Black people. So, we’re living in a time now when times are changing. And we appreciate that. [Laughter]





M:  And so, if there’s anything you could say about your time living here: being raised here, coming back here, what is one memory that you would—

S:  Well, for me, I’m a wealthy guy. [Laughter] When I left here, I didn’t have a dime. But I come back here a millionaire. [Laughter] But that’s just one of those things, you understand? I’ll tell you a little story. You got that thing going?

M:   Um-hm.



U:   As long as you want.



	S:	Oh. Okay. I didn’t want to say this, I won’t say this. But anyway. M:	You can say something off the record.

	S:	Yeah. Put it back on. [Laughter] M:	Okay.

[Break In Recording]



	M:	But yeah. Is there any last comments you want to say? Or any last things?



	S:	I’m glad to have—be interviewed by you all. And I appreciate that. And I hope that I was able to answer some questions that you really wanted to know about. ‘Cause of being the age of eighty—I’m eighty-two, I’ll be eighty-three in August the eighth. My mother and I were born in August. Different days, though. My dad and my sisters were born in the same month: October. So it would have been a coincidence if it had been on the same day. Yeah. So, that’s it!

	M:	Okay. Well, thank you for your time!





S:   Yeah. [End of Interview]

Transcribed by:  Marissa Volk, January 30, 2019 Audit edited by:  Sandra Romero, April 15, 2019 Final edited by:   Sandra Romero, May 14, 2020