AAHP 464; Hickmon; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 464 Freddie Hickmon African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on August 7, 2012 54 minutes | 26 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 464

Interviewee: Freddie Hickmon Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 9, 2012



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program from Pugh Hall on August 9, 2012 and speaking today with Reverend Doctor Fred Hickmon—

	H:	Freddie.



	W:	Freddie Hickmon. Thank you, Reverend Hickmon, for being here today. Could you please state and spell your complete name from birth?

	H:	My complete name is Freddie, F-R-E-D-D-I-E. Middle initial L as in Lee.



Hickmon, H-I-C-K-M-O-N.



	W:	Thank you. And does the middle initial L actually stand for Lee? H:	Yes it does.

	W:	L-E-E?



	H:	Yes sir.



	W:	What is the day and date of your birth please sir? H:	October 28, 1942.

	W:	And where were you born? H:	O'Briant, Florida.

	W:	Okay. Where you born at home or at a hospital? H:	I do not know that.

	W:	Okay. Do you know the circumstances if a doctor a midwife was present when you were born?

	H:	I do not know.



	W:	Okay. Who are your mother and father?





	H:	My father was John Henry Hickmon. My mother was Elizabeth Allen Hickmon. W:	And do you recall their dates of birth?

	H:	No I do not.



	W:	Okay. What knowledge do you have of your grandparents on your mother’s side?



What were their names?



	H:	My grandfather on my mother’s side was named Edward Allen. My grandmother was named Cara Allen.

	W:	Okay. And on your father’s side who were his parents?



	H:	It was Charlie Hickmon and I don’t remember my grandmother’s name. W:	Okay. Do you have any knowledge of any older ancestors?

	H:	Let me back up a moment. Carrie Hickmon was my grandmother on my father’s side.

	W:	Okay. And are there other ancestors further back then that you know of? H:	No sir.

	W:	How did your family originally come to the O’Briant area where you were born?



	H:	Well I was a small child at that time and we was following wherever our father and mother took us and my father was a sharecropper so we ended up there on the farm, sharecropping.

	W:	Do you happen to know the name of the farm or the people that your dad was working for?

	H:	Not at that particular time but when we relocated to Alachua County I’m very familiar with the name of the person who owned the farm.

	W:	And who were those people?





	H:	That was Claude Blandown.



	W:	Could you spell that last name? H:	B-L-A-N-D-O-W-N.

	W:	What was Mr. Blandown like, do you have any memories of him?



	H:	He just was a White owner of the farm and provided a residence for my family to live in and we did the farming.

	W:	Where was that residence located? H:	Just southwest of Alachua.

	W:	How close to the Alachua proper would that have been?



	H:	It would have only been about I guess about four miles. It’s right near– it’s the same property that Dollar General owns and operates now in Alachua.

	W:	Okay out on county road 235A? H:	Yes.

	W:	Okay. I’m very familiar with that area. What were the duties of your dad as a sharecropper and your family I guess everybody sort of helped out? Could you describe that sharecropping process for somebody who might be listening to this later on and not know what sharecropping is?

	H:	Sharecropping means that the family was charged with the responsibility of running the farm, operating the farm, planting the crop. The White owner provided the land, the equipment to farm, and provided a place for the family to live. We did all the work and were not paid.





W:  So in exchange for that what was the business arrangement? You got a place to stay you weren’t paid, but did your family keep part of the proceeds for the crops or anything like that or how did that work?

	H:	At the end of the selling of the tobacco or the harvest of the cotton the White owner would come to my father and give my father a small token, a finance.

	W:	Okay. What types of crops were raised or did you and your family work with in sharecropping? You did mention tobacco, but were there others?

	H:	Tobacco, peanuts, cotton, watermelon, cantaloupes, string beans, cucumbers, egg plants, bell peppers, and the list goes on. We was very interment in growing all of those crops.

	W:	Did you have brothers and sisters? H:	Yes, I had five brothers.

	W:	Could you please list your brothers from oldest to youngest?



	H:	The oldest one was Nathaniel Hickmon. The second oldest was Isell Hickmon.



The third was Wesley Hickmon. The fourth was Alan Hickmon. The fifth was Freddie L Hickmon. And the youngest was Charles Hickmon.

	W:	So you were the knee baby? H:	Yes.

	W:	Okay. How long did your family stay in sharecropping?



	H:	We sharecropped until I would say 19—We left the farm when I was in the seventh grade and I would say that would have been 1961 there about.

	W:	Besides the responsibilities of sharecropping if you could for just a minute elaborate what some of your chores were growing up. What were your





responsibilities you and your brothers had as far as helping your family mange the homestead and the sharecropping?

	H:	Well we did all of the work in terms of harvesting the crop. We was countable for feeding the livestock: cows, hogs, mending fences, mowing the grass, pulling weeds, those were our basic responsibilities.

	W:	Did you have mules or horses?



	H:	Yes, we had mules. I did not plow any but some of my older siblings did.



	W:	What are your memories of working with and around mules? What was their disposition was there anything special about working with mules that you have to be more cautious or more aware in any way?

	H:	Well one of the things that always stressed us if all possible stay from behind the animal because it could easily kick you.

	W:	So that was something you were aware of? H:	Yes.

	W:	Did you milk cows as well?



H:  I didn’t but some of my older siblings did. W:  Harvest eggs?

H:  Yes, picked up eggs. W: As far as the eggs— [Interruption]

W:  Besides the chickens were there any special responsibilities? Making sure foxes didn’t get in with them or the dogs or anything like that?





	H:	No we normally kept the chickens in a chicken, what we call pen and kept the gate locked.

	W:	Okay.



	H:	Or closed rather, to try to protect the chickens.



	W:	Did you have any responsibilities as far as cooking or cleaning in the home? H:	No.

	W:	Okay. That was all stuff your mom did? H:	Yes.

	W:	Okay. Moving from your life with your family growing up to your life as a husband and father. Can you describe that? Are you currently married?

	H:	Yes I am.



	W:	What is your wife’s name and how did you meet?



	H:	My wife’s named Blondie Marie Price, the maiden name, is Blondie Marie Hickmon now. She’s my high school sweetheart we met in high school we played basketball together. She played with the girls’ team I played with the boys’ team. We’ve been married going on fifty-one years. We have two sons and a daughter, three kids.

	W:	Could you list them from oldest to youngest please?



	H:	The oldest son is lieutenant commander Biles Hickmon he’s a retired lieutenant commander out the navy. The second son is William Detroit Hickmon he worked for the corner drug store and our youngest one is Joycette Elizabeth Parker. She is deceased, but she was an educator. Had her own education consultant business.





	W:	You mentioned the corner drug store for people who don’t know Alachua County they might not know what that is. Could you describe the corner drug store?

	H:	I think the corner drug store deals with trying to help rehabilitate young individuals who had become in substance abuse and have received some erroneous information in trying to help grow and develop their lives. And I think the corner drug store tried to help put them back on the proper path.

	W:	Do you have any grandchildren? H:	Have ten.

	W:	Okay [Laughter] I won’t ask you to mention them all, but what’s the best thing about being a grandfather?

	H:	That you can provide guidance and direction to help the parents in structure and rearing their children. Today young parents are missing many of the very vital aspects of rearing children because of their inexperience. Rearing children is a strategic occupation, somebody needs to always be in charge of rearing children. And I won’t feel that with my training and my experience it put me in highlighted positon after having reared three, two sons and a daughter. And out of the three of them they’ve achieved five degrees.

	W:	Outstanding. Could you talk about your early education please, sir? What is your first memory of formal education?

	H:	Well, my first memory of formal education was in 1949 I was in first grade at Douglas Elementary school in High Spring. I went to school there and then the school was transferred to Alachua. I went to Alachua County Training School and then the school there was closed and A.L. Mebane was constructed. Then I





finished high school at A.L. Mebane High School, then I matriculated to Santa Fe Community College, Edward Waters College in Jacksonville, and presently I was honored and awarded an honorary doctorate degree of scared letters from Jacksonville Theological Seminary in Jacksonville Florida.

	W:	Who was the principle of Douglas School when you were there? H:	Mr. Green.

	W:	Mr. Green, and what are your memories of Mr. Green?



	H:	The only thing that I remember about Mr. Green is that he’d sit in the head office and all the teachers had to respond to him. I dealt directly with my teacher.

	W:	And were some of the teachers that you remember from Douglas High School? H:	From Douglass high school Mrs. Coleman, Mrs. Mills, Mrs. Miller, Mrs. Taylor,

and Mrs. Ora Maxine.



	W:	And how is it that you can recall all those teachers just off the bat like that after so much time? What was it that was so special about them that’s left them lasting in your memory over these years?

H:  Well, unlike today when students went to school during my era they idolized and held in high esteem their teachers. Many of the accepted practice that people in education practice now was not accepted then. If a teacher was teaching us and she became pregnant, female they had to excommunicate her out of the school. That’s not the case now and those are the kinds of principle that I hold dear as a student.

W:  What about your memories of Mebane? Who was the principal when you first went to Mebane School in Alachua?





	H:	Mr. C.O. Whitfield. Clinton Otis Whitfield.



	W:	And how is it that you remember him so vividly?



	H:	Number one because he made himself visible on the campus and all of us students during my era of high school we idolized members of the faculty. As the principal as we’d very well know was in charge of the faculty or the head of the school and it was a very rewarding experience. I shall never forget it.

	W:	Who were some of your favorite teachers at Mebane? What were their subjects and why do you recall them?

	H:	Well, one of my favorite teachers was Mr. Cleve Hathcock, he was a mathematics teacher. As a result of him I know my timetables front to back, upside down because of him. Mrs. Maddie Medlock, she taught English she gave me some very good instruction of writing. Mr. Richard Thomas another math instructor. Mr. Lymus Burgess was a P.E instructor and my football coach. Mr.

Evan Banks, my science instructor. Mrs. Lois Harris taught me business administration in typing, ‘ASDFJKL’ is the home row key for typing. And I learned all that from A.L. Mebane High School from the members of the faculty there who were my teachers.

	W:	You mentioned football could you talk a little bit about that and any other extracurricular leadership experiences that you had at Mebane?

	H:	Well, I played basketball and football at A.L. Mebane High School. My senior year in high school I’m the quarterback we was undefeated that year. Only twelve points were scored on A.L. Mebane high school all year. Lake City High scored six points we defeated them 26-6, and Lincoln High School here in Gainesville





called Big Red we tied with them 6-6. All of the other competition that we had that year we did not permit the team to score at all.

	W:	Do you remember who those schools were that you played in that undefeated season?

	H:	Yes.



	W:	Could you list them please?



	H:	Madison High Training School in Madison was one, Jenkinson High School in Taylor County was one, St. Augustine High School was one, that’s all I can recall right now. We played ten games and we won all of the games that we played and only two pointers scored on us.

	W:	What do you credit that successful season? What were the factors coaching, teamwork, and philosophy? What do you think today were the elements?

	H:	Well of course number one was the coaching and then of course we had committed dedicated players. I want to make this distinctively clear, whenever you have a winning team it is not always totally the coach. You’ve got to have people with ability, people with certain skills, and they exercise those skills in the playing arena. I think very little information is provided for the people who actually do the work. The coaches had—to my knowledge and my experience—the coach is very limited. It’s the people who had the skills and the coach can advise how they can polish their skills but the fact is still eminent the skills had to be in the player. And so the player should be given a much more recognition than many of them are. That the team is successful and they highlight the coach. Well, if they didn’t have the players there wouldn’t be no team. And so the team should be





highly recognized and given as much credit as the coach because they are the ones on the front line.

W:  Could you talk a little about your professional career? You talked about thirty-five years in agriculture and extension if I’m not correct, could you elaborate a little bit more on that?

	H:	Well, I worked for the department of agriculture for thirty-five years here in Alachua County. I was hired by the state director named, Mr. OP Markova he’s deceased now. And during the time of my employment, racism was very bad.

When Mr. Markova hired me there was some people who wanted to run him out of town. He was the state director, he made the decision to hire me and they didn’t like it. And so he said to them, “The man need a chance just like everybody else to work.” And so I started out at the grassroot level and with the help of the lord and my perseverance and my commitment I elevated to one of the managerial positons with the department of agriculture. It was not without disappointment. It was a situation where I really had to stand up and fight for my rights. I had to threaten a federal lawsuit just to get promoted, just to get recognized. And once I filed the lawsuit and I was victorious in it, I thought from that point on I would be treated fairly. Point in question, I was placed in a dead end slot, a GS-4 position. And the state made it so that he doesn’t get to hire you. And so for ten or twelve years I kept a log one of my aspirations when I went off to college I wanted to become an attorney. And so I realized and recognized how important facts and dates and events were, so I made a log. And I had a log of over ten years and then at that point I had enough and I confronted





the state director about being promoted and I indicated to him that if promotion wasn’t granted I was gonna file a lawsuit. Needless to say the request was not granted so I filed a lawsuit and I was promoted five steps in one time from a GS- 4 to a GS-9. And I thought from a GS-9 after they had saw the errors of their ways they’d treat me humanly and fairly from that point on. That did not happen. I had to continually fight to be promoted and I was promoted to a GS-9 to a GS-11. Had to fight from the GS-9 to the GS-11, had to fight from the GS-11 to the GS- 12, when I retired I was a GS-12 managing one of the departments.

	W:	Were your duties in the United States Department of Agriculture broad ranged with everyone or did you primarily represent the interests and deal with agriculture issues as they related to African Americans?

	H	No, it was totally farm service agencies. It is the agency that provides the instructions for farmers throughout the state as congress passed the regulation. The incident that just recently occurred as a result of Hurricane Debby and so one of the county that has all the sinkholes and farmland has been destroyed that come under the scope of farmer service agents to rehabilitate that land and we provide service as Congress dictate to us. And so my job as I was a state office representor, I traveled throughout the state and I had to check on work that was done on that particular county as it relates to the regulations. Was the employees’ adhering to the regulation, etc., etc.? And as a state office representative my job responsibility was to travel throughout the state.

	W:	When Barak Obama was running for president when he was senator he spoke in the state of Iowa about the situation with Black farmers as it related to the Pigford





Settlement. The lack of equity and loans over the years which caused some Black farm households to lose their homes and to lose their farms. In 1900 there were 1 million Black farmers and today there are less than 20,000 Black farm households. What do you think is the role of the federal government in dealing with that issue in there being fewer Black farm households now or is that something that’s even relevant in your opinion?

	H:	Well, I think it’s relevant. I think what caused some of the Black farmers to lose their farm is because of the mistreatment from farmers home administration are the agents of the federal government that make farm loans. Particularly a lot when I was working I had to go to a particular meeting where Black farmers stated emphatically in the meeting that they had been denied loans when Whites counterplots had been granted loans and there was a law suit that was placed in the court’s procedure to try and eliminate that. So the problem is that Blacks lost a lot of their farms because of the lack of being able to get loans.

	W:	Do you think that remedies such as the Pigford Settlement that offers $50,000 to eligible Black farm households and compensation for not getting those loans in the past will help bring the situation of Black farmers back or do you think that that shipped has sailed and it’s just kind of what it is now?

	H:	Well, I don’t think it will help bring the Black farmers back. $50,000, it might help them with other living expenses but as far as bringing them back into the mainstream line of farming again its gonna take more than $50,000 dollars.

	W:	Well, thank you for allowing me to explore some of the elements of your life and career. I now would like to bring us to that part of the interview which is the main





focus today, which is to talk about President Obama. So, in getting to that let me ask the first question. How long have you been a democrat?

	H:	Ever since I was eligible to vote, eighteen. And I’m sixty-nine now so that’s roughly forty-one, forty-two years.

	W:	Okay. Could you please describe how you became a democrat?



	H:	Well, the only thing that I ever knew is that democrats has the philosophy of caving to or providing benefits for poor, deprived, or underprivileged individuals. And of course focusing on that I was a candidate of that description and so I registered as a democrat.

	W:	Was there any particular person that encouraged you to register democrat or were your parents democratic? Why the democratic party in particular?

	H:	Because of the information that was provided in terms of you can be better served with the Democratic Party.

	W:	What is it that you love about being a democrat?



	H:	Well, number one I think as a democrat we try to look at all people equally. In terms of those who are poor, those who are underprivileged, to try to give them an advantage that they can become productive citizens. I think that the Democratic Party platform responds to that issue more than the republican.

W:  Now you were elected the mayor as an African American of a rural North Florida town in High Springs. Could you talk about how that came about and how being a democrat maybe played a role in your success?

H:  Well, it came about as a result I moved to High Springs at a very early age and went to elementary school there and I’ve lived there, met my high school





sweetheart she lived in High Springs. And so I saw the operation of city government and how Black were disenfranchised. In other words, were not being treated fairly at all. And the members of the city commission of course was all Caucasian and so I formulated in my mind as a result of my work experience and I was experiencing some of the same unfairness to run for the city commission. The first time I ran I was not successful, the second time I ran I won. It was a very– learning experience. It put me in mists of some disagree some hostile setting because I was the only African American and was the first elected official in that town. And a lot of people could not accept that I was elected and I think in the early [19]70s during the [19]70s when racial tension was at its highest. The Civil Rights Movement was in high gear so to speak and I was elected. And then another one of the experiences when former Governor Bob Graham was the governor of Florida I went up there representing the city of High Springs to a meeting in Tallahassee and the city would not even pay for the expense for me to go it was such a racist thing, but that didn’t discourage me. I went, I paid my own expense to go and as a result of it served on the city commission for eighteen years. Out of the eighteen years four of the years I served as the chief executive as the mayor for the city of High Springs. And I’m very pleased with the contribution that I was very helpful and instrumental in bringing to the city of High Springs. I give all of the credit to my relationship with the Lord because righteousness is the order of the day, just seek to do what’s right. You gonna take care of all of the people, we’ve been able to get more done for the city of High Springs since the history of the town that relegates itself or lends itself





towards Afro Americans. We was able to get a street name, Dr. Marin Luther King. We wrote legislation to increase benefits for all of the employees. I got one employee $3,600 raise one year and it’s all because of practicing doing what’s right. I enjoyed serving as an elected official in High Springs and many of the citizens in High Springs now realize and recognize the contribution that I made during these turbulent years. And they are pursuing me to consider running again for reelection of course I have not made that decision yet.

	W:	Do you have other colleagues or role models that were democrats that helped during your time in leadership in High Springs and perhaps even people that you still can find in today?

	H:	Well there are still democrats when I served on the city commission if I was having problems with some situations and needed additional information I would contact them, that’s the political process. You need to have a reservoir of contacts to try to get things accomplished. As far as one that would supersede another one I would say that was the case, but you do have to have contacts.

	W:	Did you have relations with other African American mayors of High Springs? In the time since you were the first, but there have been others since then.

	H:	Yes, there have been two other. The late Essie Gassett was an educator she followed me as the second Afro American mayor and the first female. And then of course, Reverend Byran Williams, he’s followed Mrs. Gassett. At the present, we do not have an Afro American representation of the city commission at all in High Springs.





	W:	I remember Mayor Gassett when Buddy McKay was running for governor, Rick Dantzler came to town and so to the young democrats I was encouraged to High Springs to meet him. I didn’t know where High Springs was at that time. We met out on Main Street she was there and Lieutenant Governor Kennedy came through and I found her to be a delightful lady. It was a pleasure to know her very briefly.

	H:	Yeah.



	W:	Could you share what you remember from the first time you voted for a democratic presidential candidate, what was that like?

	H:	Well I always voted for the democratic candidate for president, but the first one I can’t recall when that was.

	W:	We’ll just talk about the last two, Clinton and Obama. What were your thoughts about those two men being elected?

	H:	Well, of course I voted democratic in both of those elections. Number one I felt that Bill Clinton was more in line and in tune with the grassroot of people. I thought he could relate to all people better than the republican. I thought Bill Clinton would do the best job particularly for Afro Americans and trying to make things better economically for Afro Americans. And then of course it goes without saying President Obama, as far as I’m concerned, is one of the greatest things that ever happened in this country. To elect an Afro American president it has sent a message to the total world where some had been misled and told that we was not scholars, that we could not learn, that we could not administrate, and I think all those misled have been annihilated since we now have an Afro





American president of the United States. And as far as I’m concerned he’s doing a yomen of a job.

	W:	You speak to him an admirable tone, you admire him. H:	Yes.

	W:	What is it that you admire about him?



	H:	Well, I admire about him number one because of his perseverance. I admire him because I can relate to him as an Afro American, the struggle that I’ve gone through as an Afro American to rise at the point where I am it has not been easily. I remember quite vividly the Jim Crow laws I went through that era, White and Colored drinking fountains, White and Colored bathrooms. I went through the era where Blacks were not even allowed to use restrooms, you couldn’t stay in motels. If you wanted to buy food from a restaurant you couldn’t go through the front entrance you’d have to go around the back, and so I lived through that entire era. Every year now the High Springs Community School invite me to come and lecture on the Jim Crow law to the fifth and sixth graders in High Spring and it has been an experience coming through that era, but I try to use those experiences to try and enlighten people that they can have a better life, too.

	W:	Could you please share a memorable moment, even if it’s a small one, in the way a specific family member or friend reacted when you first shared the news of President Obama’s election victory with them?

	H:	Well, that is sort of self-explanatory. The vast majority of all the Afro Americans that I talked with was excited, ecstatic, exuberant, that we had reached a point in





this country that an Afro American can be elected as president of the United States. Where in time past it was almost out of existence and for this to happen was a handiwork moving of a higher power.

	W:	So you remember the campaigns of Julian Bond, Shirley Chisholm, Jessy Jackson, and their presidential aspirations?

	H:	Yes.



	W:	What do you think set those individuals apart from what President Obama was able to accomplish? Why was he different than Jackson or Shirley Chisholm for example?

	H:	Well as far as different I think Reverend Jackson, Shirley Chisholm, and those who attempt prior to President Obama I think they help set the stage for President Obama. I feel strongly if President Obama did not have had the opportunity of these individuals aspiring for that positon I don’t think President Obama would have been as successful of being the first. Somebody had to test the water and as a result of testing the water some people who was in opposition rethought their positon and said, “Well, this is not as bad as I thought it was.” And predicated upon that analogy I think that was a plus for President Obama when he was elected.

	W:	How far do you think we are away from electing the first African American women president of the United States?

H:  Well, I feel number one if we can maintain and reelect President Obama I think she would have a better chance whenever she does attempt that positon. But I think at this junction I think it’s almost an insurmountable task to elect a female





Afro American president because you have to take into consideration this country has never had a female Caucasian president and history being what it is you know they tend to think that Caucasian has to be first.

	W:	Maybe Sasha and Malia, since they’ve grown up in the White House. What are you doing right now to ensure President Obama’s 2012 reelection?

	H:	Well, I’m trying to encourage Afro Americans particularly that how fortunate and blessed we are to have an Afro American president and to do all that I can and for them to do all that they can to be ensured that he is reelected. One of the– I agree with everything that he has done for the expectation of one. I don’t agree with the statement of same sex marriage. But other than that he’s been marvelous, he’s excellent, and the reason that I take stance against same sex marriage is because it’s not biblical, it’s not culture, it tends to degrade our society, and that’s my point of contingent of same sex marriage. It does not lend itself to growing and developing children to maintain the role of a male and of a female and I think we all have to agree that in society we must have those distinctions and same sex marriage doesn’t provide that.

	W:	Is there a specific policy or law or issue that President Obama supports that you really like and that you believe he will deliver if awarded a second term?

	H:	Well, I think as I said earlier the decision that President Obama has done and another thing that people need to realize and recognize, the problems that President Obama has, he inherited them. Not like he created them and he’s trying to resolve them and to some degree he has resolved some of them. Look at the bailout for the automobile industry, at least he tried and has been





successful in that area. Now the unemployment has not risen as much as I would like for it and I’m sure President Obama would like for it to be much higher, but you have to give him credit. He’s doing all that he can do in spite of the opposition to try to turn that around, unemployment.

	W:	What are your thoughts about President Obama ordering a successful raid that led to the assassination of Osama Bin Laden who was the mastermind of the 9/11 bombings?

	H:	I think he made an excellent decision and I think some of his predecessors who had an opportunity to do something differently, I think they failed in regards to that and I think the decision that President Obama made to rid this country of that kind of behavior with this particular leader was admirable and was right.

	W:	I love what you just said, but because you didn’t say Osama Bin Laden in it, it didn’t get the same resonance. Could you reframe your answer adding when President Obama made the order for Osama Bin Laden or just something that puts Obama and Bin Laden together because what you said was marvelous and it’s going to be outstanding for our archives, but I’d like to be able to get a response for you that we can use on air and what you just said we’re not going to be able to use that the same way because you didn’t say Osama Bin Laden or Obama in your answer? If you’d to take a moment to think about how you’d like to put that together or we can move on.

	H:	No, no, no. I want to respond to it, I’m trying to understand the question.



	W:	Well, you said he said a good job and a leader of that magnitude. Everything you said, because I gave you the question that said that were your thoughts about





Osama Bin Laden and President Obama making that order. I understood what it meant, but for someone who is going to watch this being put together they’re going to have no idea that you were talking about Osama Bin Laden and Barack Obama. So if you could give the answer, but put some of those key phrases in there so people will know that you’re saying when President Obama ordered the raid that led to the assassination of Osama Bin Laden how your supported that.

	H:	Well, I support it because the disenfranchise that the leadership of—



	W:	Again, so I apologize for interrupting you but you need to say the words about Obama and Bin Laden within your answer.

	H:	Okay. Obama gave the command to annihilate Bin Laden because he was a threat to the American people, he was a threat to the humane of America, and I think when he gave the command to take him out, if you will, it was right, it was prudent, and I think that all of us would have to agree that as far as peace in the United States as result of Bin Laden have been removed off the scene it has been to our benefit.

	W:	That was perfect. What do you fear the most about this election?



	H:	My greatest fear about this election is that if President Obama is not reelected and Mitt Romney is elected we’re gonna see a great turn in this country for the detriment of many, many people of the human race. I think President Obama has the heart of the people on his agenda. One of the things he’s re-questioned is that the rich be more concerned in terms of paying more taxes, et cetera, et cetera instead of penalizing the middle class or the lower people. ‘Cause the tax





structure that is set up now, I pay more taxes than some rich people and I’m in the middle class.

	W:	How confident are your that President Obama will be reelected?



	H:	Well, after having being an elected official I think that you need to always challenge your campaign as though you’re the underdog. You can’t become too overconfident that I’m going to be elected or reelected. You got to run as if though there’s a possibility that you cannot be victorious. So predicated upon that I think that you should always keep in mind that the winner is not determined until the votes are counted and so when you are running for a position, you run as though that there’s a distinct possibility that you can lose. Now, it’s good to have the confidence and say to convince yourself that I’m gonna be reelected, but the fact is eminent that you have to get out and work, you have to present yourself as though you the underdog. Now that’s been my experience as an elected official and I know several of my friends who lost elections as a result of thinking that they were a shoe-in and they did not aggressively get out and campaign as they should have and as a result of it, they lost the race.

	W:	Is President Obama running hard enough?



	H:	Yes, I think he’s doing everything humanly possible to try to get reelected. One of the things that I would like to see a little emphasize placed on, I don’t like dirty politics. I don’t like trying to discourage your opponent in such a way by painting a bad picture, if it’s factual that’s good, but as far as running a dirty campaign I try to stay away from that. I think every candidate should run on his or her own





merits and I think that speaks volume for the individual without trying to lambast your opponent.

	W:	Florida is a very unusual state. People talk about how the further south you go the further north you come in, and the further north you go, the further south you’re going. We’ve had some very unusual situations with our elections throughout the year. I’d like to know were you surprised not so much that President Obama was elected in 2008, but that he was elected and carried the state of Florida and if so, what are your thoughts about what special things need to be done in Florida so that we can put the electoral votes of Florida in the column for President Obama this time?

	H:	Well, I think that Florida has come a long ways in terms of divisiveness, race relations. I think number one what helped President Obama in Florida he could relate to the Floridians. And I think that as a result of his efforts with the grassroot people I think that weighed heavily in his campaign in terms of contributions in terms of even getting votes to be elected. I think that if president Obama is reelected I think that Florida will benefit will significantly as a result of reelecting President Obama.

	W:	Reverend Hickmon on the behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program I’d like to thank you for taking this time to give your reflections on your life and on the upcoming reelection– candidacy of President Barak Obama. We appreciate you taking the time out of the day to come here it’s something you didn’t have to do, so it’s very much appreciated. With that thanks I’d like to give you the opportunity for final privilege, maybe there’s something that we didn’t talk about





in the election or some thought you have now, but whatever it might be these are my last comments feel free the floor is open to you to say anything you would like and at the conclusion of your remarks that will conclude the interview with our thanks.

	H:	Well, I’m very appreciative that I was invited to come and make an expression in this momentous event that is taking place in the reelection of President Obama. I think this country for the longest has been deprived because of the backward thinking of certain individuals. I think we have a wonderful country, I think if we all would come to the point of learning to appreciate each other we can add tremendously to the benefit and quality of life for each other. I wrote an article in how to have a successful life and some of the contents of that article is first off all you must come to realize who you are. All of us are given by God certain rights and the abilities and if we would focus those rights and abilities that God has provided for each of us, we can enrich each of our lives can be greatly enhanced. And with that having been said, I’m grateful and I’m thankful how God has allowed me the short while that I have lived to have been able to touch the lives of many peoples, my profession as a minister it was never on the agenda for me to become a minister. When I finished high school I wanted to become an attorney, but I’m happier now than I have ever been in my life. I like what I do, trying to reach out to people and trying to be a blessing to people that turned them or help them focus in the things that is proper for them. And in closing, after having been married fifty years and reared two sons and a daughter, and have ten grands now which five of them are in college now, I think that I have been





able to touch the lives of my immediate family and that’s very gratifying when you can touch your immediate family lives. And of course it goes without saying that when you touch the lives of other people. Thank you for having me and if I can be of any service to humanity during the course of your program I would be honored and happy to do whatever I can. Thank you again.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Lisa Mueller, November 15, 2017



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, November 14, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019