AAHP 213; Andrews; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





AAHP 213 Eyvonne Andrews African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview Conducted by Latoya Jackson on November 10, 2011 1 hour, 19 minutes | 40 pages



Abstract: Longtime resident and clerk of High Springs Eyvonne Andrews explains how different events within her Alachua County community and in the U.S. impacted her life and family.

Growing up in a time of segregation, Andrews explains how the Black community often had limited interactions with White people; for her, this ended with the integration of universities like her own. She explains where she drew inspiration and her drive to succeed originated with her love for learning and school. She recognizes figures in her life, like her father and family or her teacher Katherine Taylor who allowed her to pursue her dreams by creating a community in which she never felt inferior. Her appreciation for the sacrifices that her family made for her kept her motivated throughout her life, encouraging her to become the first Black secretary at the Alachua County Jail, the first female operator to work in an industrial land field at Electric General and the first in the state of Florida. Coming from a family of farmers, Andrews shares much appreciation for the land, one which she feels is threatened by Whites who often buy family lands within her community for commercial purposes. As a clerk during the 2008 elections, she also speaks about the importance of President Obama and the First Lady were to blacks and how they symbolized change. She also reflects about the differences she noticed in past elections compared to that of Obama’s and states that racism was definitely a continuing factor.



Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Integration; Black landownership]



































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 213

Interviewee: Eyvonne Andrews Interviewer: Latoya Jackson Date: November 10, 2011

	J:	Good morning. It’s November 10, 2011 about 10:20 in the morning, and I am interviewing with Mrs. Eyvonne Andrews. Good morning.

	A:	Good morning!



	J:	First, I want to thank you for letting me do this—to interview you, and get your insights. What is your full name?

	A:	Eyvonne Andrews



	J:	And when were you born? A:	March the second, 1948.

	J:	Are you originally from High Springs or—?



	A:	I am originally from High Springs. In fact I was born in this house, right next door to me.

	J:	Oh. Okay. How so?



	A:	Except for leaving to go to college, other than that, I have been residing here in High Springs practically all my life except for a few months right after I was married. I was living in Gainesville for a few months, and then I moved back here. Course when I got my divorce, I even brought my name back, which my name was Smith, but I brought it back to Andrews. I was able to do that; my original family name.

	J:	Wow! So you’re familiar with Alachua County and different changes that’s occurred.

A:  Yes, I stay in contact with a lot of things that’s going on in Alachua County. I have been the clerk for the High Springs area now for quite a few years. I’ve worked with the election for over thirty something years. I was employed with Alachua County





Sheriff’s Office department of the jail for a few years—eighteen years. Before that I was employed with the Florida Highway Patrol. Then I eventually left there and went to the jail, where I was working until my retirement.

	J:	And that’s the Alachua County Jail? A:	Yes.

	J:	Okay. Wow.



	A:	I’ve been very active in a lot of community activities here in High Springs, as well as Alachua County, I’ll say it like that.

	J:	Oh. So what can you tell me about growing up? You went to public schools here in High Springs?

	A:	Yes. The public school I attended was called Douglass Elementary School, Douglass High School. Of course during integration that school was phrased out. In fact it was still an elementary school, but I finished eighth grade there as valedictorian of the class at that time. Then I went on to Mebane High School, which the students from Alachua, Newberry, High Springs, and other surrounding areas like La Crosse, Monteocha, and other areas. We all went to Mebane High School at that time. Later on when they did integration and opened up the ability for the Blacks to go to the other schools, they all went to places like Santa Fe, GHS, Buchholz, Eastside. They had options to go to those schools.

	J:	So is there any teacher in particular that you can remember from elementary school or middle school that really inspired you?

	A:	Katherine L. Taylor. Katherine L. Taylor was one who said you can do anything through Christ who strengthens you. She was a religious person. At that time





religion was in the school. This is one thing that Ms. Taylor did. She was in elementary school and all. This was something she instilled. I was one who she felt was a little bit fast. Not really say fast, but bright. She talked my dad into letting me start the school early. So I started school a little bit early, and of course I finished early. Not only there, but also in my high school. I was one of the youngest ones in the group to finish because of the fact of starting the school early. But Ms.

Katherine Taylor who is now the—the area where Douglass was is now a park. It’s a park, and it’s a daycare center around it. The park has been named, in fact we just had this dedication named a couple of years ago, the Katherine L. Taylor Park. There was a building that they had that was a library that I had tried to implement it. They had moved it from there out to what they now call High Springs Community School, and this was a brick building that was a library there at Douglass. And when they decided they no longer wanted to use it I tried to get it to be moved it back, but of course I couldn’t get it back from the county. They wanted to tear it down, so that was another thing that we lost. The only thing we have still standing at the site is the daycare center which was at that time the lunchroom. And now it has been turned into the daycare center for our area there.

	J:	So there’s still a fragment of that school left?



	A:	Yes. Yes. There’s still a fragment of the school there. Something to remind you of it.

	J:	Okay. So would you say going to school for you was a positive experience growing up?

	A:	Oh yes, it was. I loved school, and this is why my—different individuals noticed





how they thought I was bright. “Just let her go on to go to school. She‘ll do all right. If not, then we‘ll send her back home.” I ended up staying there, because I loved school. I mean, we had after school programs. Not after school, but after during the summer we had programs. We did crafts and stuff. Ms. Taylor was in charge of that of course, and these are things that we did in the summer. Of course, a lot of us did a lot of field work. And my sister and them say I don’t know a whole lot about that, but I did do a lot; some field work. They worked in tobacco, they worked in picking peas, and different stuff like that. I can remember a day that I asked my daddy, because all of the kids always bragged about that’s how. We were talking about that Tuesday at election how we used to make our money and that was how we bought our school clothes for the upcoming year. I could remember one particular year I begged my dad to let me go out in cucumbers, cucumbers or either bell pepper field. He said, “Baby girl, you’re not going to like that.” I said, “Let me go dad, just let me go.” He said, “Okay.” I went out there when I got home and the next day they came by to pick me up, I said, “I’m not going back out there.” He said, “I knew you wouldn’t.” [Laughter] And it was really hard work for Black folks, but it was something that they did for this community and things like that.

	J:	Wow. Interesting. Growing up you lived out here? A:	Yes

	J:	Next door?



	A:	Played up and down the roads in the streets with the people down the street from us. And also there was Wimley’s. Ms. Eddie Wimley who was our food service manager at that time. Her granddaughter and I are classmates, and we were just





talking about how we played up and down this road here. Wasn’t scared of anything. All up late at night, long as they would let us stay at night. Then there was the Burnett’s Gilchrist’s that stayed in the house. I’s torn down there. That was to my left of my house there. You probably can see that area. We played with them and all. My sister was telling me the other day—I hate to say this, but I wasn’t one who was feisty. I’ve been talking to my granddaughter about her feistiness with people, being mean and aggressive and wanting to fight and stuff like that, because my sister, my sister Avon, which is a brother between us Abe and then there was Avon, she reminded me about the fact of how when we would get off of the bus, how some of the children that were smaller than me wanted to fight and she would always say, “I got scratches on me now from where I had to defend you because you wouldn’t fight people. Instead you just let them fight you.” She said, “Then when you got older and grown, that’s when you wanted to be feisty instead of keeping those kids off of you when you were coming up.” But, that was me. [Laughter]

	J:	So how would you get to and from school? A:	To and from school?

	J:	Yes, ma’am.



	A:	Walk! When we were going to school at Douglass there was a path that we would walk to get to the school. This road here, Railroad Avenue, which you see now was not paved. It was a dirt road, and I loved that road because it had the halo of trees how the trees overlap from both sides and made the shade. That’s what I loved about it. But when development came in they paved the road. Of course they was





doing that, because of the fact that all of the roads up in town were paved. And they felt that it was time for them to start going into our area, because it was—these laws now had got to the point where you don’t do everything up in one area without doing it into the other area. So they got the grants to start working on the roads in our area, so this is what happened. I can remember walking through a path; wasn’t scared of anything. The path wasn’t two feet wide that you walked down. Now, I can hardly walk around the road, because I’m scared of snakes and everything.

And I wasn’t scared of anything then! I walked the road. Then, as we got up into high school when we started going to high school, that’s when we began to be bused to the school. Now the kids can be bused from here, which is on 222nd street. But when I was going to school, we all had to walk up to in the beginning, because Ms. Taylor fought for us buses after they said we all had to go there, Ms. Taylor fought for us to get a couple of buses. And once we began to get more buses, instead of us walking up to the old school, we would catch the bus at 222nd Street to go to school.

	J:	Now going back to something you said earlier, you said your dad knew you would not like going to a cucumber field and picking…that being said, what were your goals? Growing up do you remember knowing what you wanted to do when you became an adult?

	A:	I knew that I wanted to work. I thought that I wanted to work with children at that time. Of course when I grew up, and finished school, I went to Daytona Beach College, and then I went to Florida A&M. As long as I was subbing at Douglass, which was still open at that time, as long as I was subbing at Douglass I was okay.





But when I would sub back at Mebane where I finished High School, the kids wanted to rap or talk. I just had no control over them. I would have young men come up to me and say, “I remember when you used to come down...” I don’t know if you remember that when I was in high school they would take the high school, the bright high school students sometimes when teachers were going to be out, they would take a student from the high school to go down, and teach the class in the elementary department.

	J:	I didn’t know that.



	A:	Yes. This is what we would do, whereas now when a teacher is going to be out, they get subs—people who are certified teachers to come in and teach. But when I was growing up they would use us, high school students, to go down to the elementary school to teach classes. Generally the teachers always had their curriculum printed out and everything, so basically you just had to follow the format. This is what we used to do. And I can remember going down to the different classes at different times. They would pull us from our class and have us to go down. “Andrews, we need you to do Ms. Woods class today. She’s out sick.” So we would go down and do that. This is what we used to do in school. When I finished college, like I was about to tell you, and came up and was teaching at Mebane, the students wanted to rap. “I remember when you used to come down and teach us when we were in elementary school.” Cause they are in high school now, they felt that they could rap and they would say, “You want me to take you out to dinner sometimes?” No! [Laughter] And so I felt that at that time with me having that, and then I couldn’t always keep them under control, I got to the point where I said—I





came to my dad one day—and I said, “Dad, as soon as I find me another job, I’m not teaching another day. Every penny you spent for me to go to college I’ll make a way to give it back to you, but I’m not teaching another day. I just can’t do it.” Then I stopped teaching. I stopped teaching and began working at a plant up here at that time that was called General Electric. And I began working up there, and to tell you the truth I was making better there than it would have been if I was working in the school system, because we were making better money at the time. Of course, I hate to say this, but we’ve gotten an adverse reaction from that, from working in those chemicals. We did not know, and of course they weren’t going to tell you or nothing like that how affective that working with acid and the stuff that you make batteries with would be on your body. And I’ve seen so many people that have so many different problems, cancer, so many different problems with their organs and limbs and stuff. I was talking with a gentleman the other day, we really feel that all of that came from what we were exposed to in working under those climates that we worked in at General Electric. Of course I guess the statutory of limitation is going out, and it’s not a whole lot we can do about it. We just have to pray that we’ll survive from what we’ve dealt with up there. But that was when I started working there. I worked there, I forgot about that, for seventeen years before I was laid off, and then I went back to school, got my certification in Computer Information, which that was one of my ace that caused me to get the job at Florida Highway Patrol and at the jail. I was the only Black, and I think that I was the first Black secretary to work there at the jail. And I was that for the whole while. I don’t think they ever did higher another at the jail. They may have one now, but at that time they didn’t have





one when I was there. I was the first and only. I was the first and only with a lot of things! When I was working at General Electric, I was the first female operator to work in an industrial land—to operate an industrial land field. I was the first one in the state of Florida to operate an industrial land field in the state. I was the first female to drive that what they call a 9-10 Front-End Loader at that time. I worked in environmental; testing the waters that would come out of the plant that had to go into the environment. We had to test that water, and I was one of the first woman Black. At first they didn’t want to give me the job, and I can remember one of the Black supervisors, Lindsey Jones told them, “If she say she can do it, let her do it because I believe she can do it.” And I did it. I used to work a 9-10 Front-End Loader. I used to have to work a crane. And I also used to have to work a lift that lifted up into the roof.

	J:	Wow! And I mean just going by how you look now, did it give you a sense of pride or accomplishment?

	A:	Yes, because I was one of those people that, “Bama got the word said, and ‘I can do it.’” I am one of those people that said, “I can do it,” and I did. [Laughter]

	J:	Now going back to, you mentioned how you went to Mebane and then after integration, the options kind of opened up. Did you have, after integration, did you have White friends or before integration did you have White friends?

	A:	Not at Mebane per se. My mom really didn’t work, but she would do what you would call housekeeping for the Doctor—at time was Dr. Swats. She would go out to their home and keep their home, tidy it up and everything, and all that. And I would go out there like if she had to out there on the weekend or days we were out





of school I would go with her at that time. I can remember playing with them, but other than that, that was it. I can remember when I was young. I used to… there was right when you turn off of 222nd street, there’s an animal hospital. That used to be a skating palace.

	J:	Okay.



	A:	Right beside that, the building that was torn down, was a restaurant. My sisters and all worked at that for many years. When I got older, I could stand up on a milk carton, and I would go there and work with them to wash dishes. Then the lady that was one of the owners of the place that stayed back beyond the restaurant, she got sick and I would go and sit with her at times. Sometimes the daughter of the lady would bring her children there for me to watch while she would go to do some work at the restaurant. So, like I said I had some actions with them. A lot of communication with Whites was not until my second year in college. The first year in college I went to what they called Volusia County Community College. Then we merged the Daytona Community College. When we merged to be Daytona Beach Community college, we moved from the small campus that we were at to the big campus where it is now. And this is when I had the interactions with Whites because it was White, Blacks, whatever it was, in the classes and stuff. I can remember when they got to the point that they would want to communicate with us even though I think their parents did not like that. I can remember one particular family. They had what they call summer houses, I guess you call them, on the beach. And the students were allowed to use their house in the winter time while they were up north. Their family might be up north. These were the White kids. And





we would go up there, and have parties up there. And I’m quite sure that if their parents knew that it was like White/Black, just as many Blacks as there was Whites there, I don’t think that they would have appreciated the fact that their kids had all of us out there partying out there with them at their house.

	J:	So they would invite you to these parties?



	A:	Yes. Yes. And they got to get to know different ones of us, they would invite different ones of us. They’d say, “Hey we’re having a party at the house, at such and such place, here’s the address.” We would go out there and party with them. My brother at that time who was a year—three years older, two and a half years older than I—he was at the school still there, and he had a car. The first year we walked—that was another thing too—we walked from the housing area, because we stayed in houses, rental houses. Like people who had houses, they would room out houses to different people who would come to town to stay. So we would stay at these houses, and I know it had to be like two miles that we would have to walk from there to campus and everything. Very few people had cars, but the first year I did that. The second year, my brother bought a car. And, we would all that was staying in that rental house, we would all ride the car to the campus then.

	J:	Interesting. So looking back at being able to party with the White students, was that a shock to you? I mean, growing up what were you taught about race relations? What was expected of you as a young Black woman or a young Black girl? What did your parents teach you about race relations?

	A:	You get along with them, but I wasn’t one who wanted to have a personal relationship I guess you may say. I hate to say this, but I always felt that they were





the ones who put the stigma on us and caused us to be, felt like a lower class than they were. I didn’t have that. As I’ve grown up being with them and all, and working with them as much as I have, I’ve gotten to the point that I can be comfortable with them knowing that I am just as good as they are, just as bright as they are, can do just as well as they can. In fact, I have had some instances where I’ve been able to do better than they can. I wasn’t one of those people who was—I hate to use the word big-headed, because I could do better than you. I didn’t make you feel lower than me, because I was doing better than you, or because of my accomplishment I didn’t look down on other people. That’s one of the things that I’ve instilled in my children. I have two children, two boys and a girl. Of course I’ve got a daughter. I guess you can tell that she was a student at Princeton.

	J:	I see the signs.



	A:	And she graduated from Princeton in 2004. She’s the first Black that I know of from High Springs to ever receive a full load at Princeton, and graduate from Princeton. She was Valedictorian. She’s not the first Valedictorian of High Springs, but she’s one of the first Blacks to be Valedictorian of Santa Fe High School. She finished at Princeton. She’s got her head set and her goals set to do better. She got her teaching certification in Houston, Texas, and now she’s a graduate student at Duke University. Her goals started out while she was young. I’ve always instilled that to set your goals high with my kids or any kids that I work with…to set your goals high and don’t let nothing stop you from reaching those goals. I worked with youth and youth development. I was just filling out an application last night and my grandson asked me, “Why are you coming out here?” and I said, “Cause I can’t





remember these plaques that I’ve gotten.” So I had to go out and look on the wall to refresh me of the things that I’ve done. I worked with youth development. I used to coach kids in basketball and softball and stuff like that. I was in little league. I think that a lot of that come from the fact that my dad was—when we were in school, my dad would always be the one, and he would always find time. And I don’t know if he would take off from work or what it was, but that he would always chaperone for any of us whatever it was that we were involved in. And I could remember when we were getting ready to go. We used to go to the state fair in Tampa. They used to get a bus and we would all go, those who could afford to, go to the fair in Tampa. I can remember being asked, “Andrews, you gonna check and make sure that your dad gonna be able to chaperone for us?” And I’d say, “Yes.” He would always. I could never remember him not being able to chaperone, and that’s something that I can remember with my kids coming up in college—I mean in school. I was always there with them. Whatever sports they were in. I was there with them. Now I have a grandson who won’t stay anywhere, but with me. I try to stay involved with him as much as I possibly can. Of course I have disability that cause me to not be able to sit out there on the bleachers for a long period of time, but I still do that kind of stuff. Whatever it is he’s involved in, whatever it is they’re involved in, I try to stay involved with it.

	J:	And what was your dad’s name?



	A:	Abe Andrews. One of the pioneers of here, of High Springs. J:	And what did he do for a living?

	A:	He worked on the railroad. And that was as one of the positive things about us,





because with him working on the railroad they used to repair the tracks and stuff in this area. I can remember with him working on the railroad it gave me the opportunity to be able to travel. My aunt moved to Philadelphia, and at that time my mom and my brother and I we would always during the summer, not every summer, but we go and spend at least a couple of weeks in Philadelphia with my aunt at that time.

	J:	And what was your mother’s name?



	A:	My mom’s name was Mary Wydman Andrews. Right now whenever we do family reunions, we always do them under Andrews Wydman Family Reunion. We have family gatherings every first Sunday we rotate from house to house. We have prayer service and we all rotate in fixing a dish. I’m responsible, last first Sunday I was responsible for all of the starch—all of the vegetables. And then we each have, different ones of us are responsible for us. It’s five of us left. It’s a family of nine. There were seven girls and two boys.

	J:	In your immediate family? A:	Yes. Yes.

	J:	Wow. Okay.



	A:	Now I have my sister Betty, my sister Lois, my sister Avon and myself. It’s four girls. There’s still two boys. But we rotate. We have them to volunteer who wants to have it at their house. And so this passed first Sunday we were at one of my nephew’s house. We rotate according to the family of what you’re going to fix. This past month I had the starches. No, I had the vegetables. My sister Betty had the starches. My sister Avon’s family had the drinks, and my brother Abe had the meat.





So we rotate the food every month in different groups. And you have different ones in your group. Like I have my son and Velma, Ms. Ester Alexander. She’s been adopted into our family and the Hampton family. We all have different times when we all decide what we’re going to each fix. Generally, whatever group I’m in, I always fix the bulk of whatever it is, I tell them, “Well you can fix,” I think I told them, “you can fix the string beans, and I’ll fix the acre peas.” [Laughter]

	J:	Thanksgiving!



	A:	I didn’t fix greens this time. We generally have greens. Because it was November, I was real pleased at the fact that my brother did turkey and dressing this time. Well he did the turkey. He told my sister Betty, cause she had the starches that, “You need to fix the dressing, cause I’m fixing turkey. This is our Thanksgiving.” I said okay. So this is how we do things.

	J:	So do you have a favorite dish that you like to prepare?



	A:	The meat. My nephew, they always brag on the fact that whenever we have meat we can guarantee we’re going to have a variety of different meat, and it’s going to be tasty. Now one thing they do not like for me to do is dessert. I do not do nothing but mess up dessert. Believe it or not, I used to cook cakes and stuff when I was working at GE, and sell them to people. I don’t know if old age or what it is. My grandson has gotten to the point where he can cook real good. He does a lot of desserts whenever we have desserts. So we do pretty good. They say, “We’d rather you have meats or the vegetables or the starch, because other than that you don’t do good.” [Laughter] And the drinks, they love for me to fix drinks.

	J:	Do you do like a punch or—





	A:	Yes! Anytime I do the punch, whether I’m doing it for the church or whatever it is, everybody ask me, “Can you tell me what’s in that?” Nope! I can’t tell you. “Can you tell me how you fix it?” No! I can’t tell you. I make them think that it’s a secret, but it’s not really a secret. If you sit there and drank it for a while you‘ll figure out what it is that I put in there. Maybe it’s just the way that I do it. They always said, “Eyvonne fixed this punch. I can tell. It tastes just right.” [Laughter]

	J:	Now will you eventually tell somebody your recipe?



	A:	Believe it or not, I have a recipe file on my refrigerator with basically all of my recipes that I do. I do. I can remember the year that we had our family reunion at the Baptist Convention Center, and my nephew and I had a contest. I don’t believe in cake mix stuff. I don’t believe in a whole lot of store bought stuff, but this particular time we had to do pancakes. And it was something I forgot to put in mine and they didn’t come out right, but anyway I am the pancake maker here. I can remember my niece coming in from Houston one day and she said, “Well Auntie, tell me what you put in there?” And I said, I don’t know. She said “Don’t start making pancakes until I get here.” And every time I got ready to dump something she said, “Hold on I got to measure that!” She had her measuring spoons and measuring cups and all of that so, she said “I got to figure it out!” So one day, I finally sat down, and when I was making pancakes, because I’m an old fashioned cook. It’s not a cup of this or a cup of that, a half a cup of this. It’s a pinch of this and a scoop of this, or whatever it is. This is how we cook. So, I have sit down. Since I’ve retired I’ve kind of like compiled my recipes into a formula. And not only do I have it printed into my recipe file on the top of my refrigerator, I have them on a





disk—on a flash drive. So it says “Eyvonne Recipes.” They are recipes that my mom did, my sister, who was one of the outstanding cooks, Juanita Rivers. She’s passed, but a lot of the things that I got from her. For some reason I told her, even though my daughter or I would go over to help her when she would make dressing, I’ve never known anybody to make it like her, I would go over there and help her make it, and I would say, “Okay, I need to write all of this down.” So I start writing down the thing. She says, “It’s not going to always taste the same, but it’s always going to be good if you do it this way.” So I start following her recipes when I’m cooking and all. She’s the only one that I know that could cook a duck, and it would not be greasy, and I would eat the duck. I can remember a friend of mine and a relative of mine told her they don’t eat turkey and dressing. My sister cooked some turkey and rice. She pulled all the skin off the turkey and just used the meaty part. My cousin, she talks about this now, she said, “I used to say I don’t eat turkey and dressing, but I was eating my belly full over to Juanita’s one day.” And she said, “Velma, I thought you say you didn’t eat turkey and dressing.” She said, “I don’t eat nobody’s turkey and dressing.” And she said, “Well you sure been eatin your belly full of turkey and dressing today.” She said, “No I’m not, no I didn’t Juanita.” She says, “This chicken and dressing.” “No it’s not. It’s turkey and dressing!” [Laughter] And these are the things we had so much fun about and stuff, and growing up and all. Cause we just have family gatherings, and we love getting together.

	J:	And all of this was next door growing up? A:	Yes.

	J:	Wow.





	A:	My mom used to do it. What happened was, my mom used to do this on Sunday. That was one things she always made sure of. She had a meal done, ready for us whenever we would come in from church every Sunday. My son lives in the house now. He drives trucks, so he’s out—where did he tell me was? In Louisiana. He hates driving up state. He loved it when he’s driving in Florida only. But he drives for Great Wide which was contracted to Wal-Mart/Sam’s, but now Great-Wide didn’t get the contract for this upcoming year, so he’s had to start driving out of state a lot, but he will be in state because they know that he is one, like I said I’ve instilled in him to spend time with his children. His son plays football for Santa Fe, and he doesn’t like it when he’s not there. He has his phobia like I used to have, that if he’s not there, they’re not going to do as well. If something happens to him, he’d feel bad that he’s not there. He used to coach for them, when they were league. He took on the same trait that we had when I was young, coaching for their children’s team, whatever they play on. That’s what he used to do until he started doing long distance driving and now that he’s doing that, he doesn’t coach little league anymore.

	J:	So has your family always owned this land, this property out here?



	A:	Not this. I bought this when what happened was when my mom got up in age and when I was married, they may pick certain ones in the family that they want to do things for them like right now I’m dealing with an aunt of mine, who is the only aunt that we have living, Jesse Mills, my mom’s sister. Somebody told you something about her?

	J:	The name just sounds familiar.





	A:	Jessie Mills?



	J:	Yes, ma’am.



	A:	She lives right up the street there. Jessie Wydman Mills. She is in the first stages of dementia. And there’s something about me—I can communicate with her.

Whereas my sister Betty, she says she’ll tell her she’s not—she was outside picking up pecans the other day, and Betty told her she wanted to go in and see what’s what about her house so she can clean out her refrigerator, because she’ll just store food in there, because she doesn’t eat well. She said, “You’re not going in my house.” Now if I would have gone down there I would have said, “Let’s go in the house for a while.” She said, “No I’m not.” I’d say, “Come on in and go in this house. I’ll go in by myself.” She used to fuss because I have a key to her house, and she told me one time to give her her key and I said, “I‘m not giving you no key, because if you lock yourself out who‘s going to let you in?” So ever since then I had not problem about her asking for a key back, but my sister Betty…and I had the same situation. What I was going to tell you about why I moved here and I had this house built. My mom was—I was the one who she would call. I don’t know if it was because I was the baby or what. When I would get off from work on Saturday—I used to have to work overtime on Saturdays at GE—I would go in like at five something in the morning, so I could get off early enough, because during that time old folks believed in going into town on Saturday. I was the one who had to take her to town. My sisters could call her and say, “Momma you want something from town?” “No, I’ll get it later.” Or either they’ll come by to take her to town and she wouldn’t go with them, but the minute I’d get home I’d say, “You ready to go to





town?” “Let me get my shoes on!” They said, “I asked her earlier about going to town and she wouldn’t go to town.” But that’s just old folks’ ways during that time. They only wanted certain people to do things for them. I was that person. So I eventually, just when I got my divorce, well just before I got my divorce, moved to High Springs in a rental house. Then I had this house built. And at that time, with me working at General Electric, I was able to get basically something of what I wanted. Of course this house is over thirty something years. Just about a year ago I had to remodel it, and I had old floors and different things done thanks to my son and my daughter. [Laughter]

	J:	I know that’s right. I liked your countertops. I noticed them back there.



	A:	Well I just changed. That’s what I just changed. My house was set when my refrigerator was right here. And there was a counter and breakfast bar on the other side. My daughter thought that she wanted a change, because her house in North Carolina has a breakfast bar in front of the sink, and she came up with this idea of changing the bar from that side to this side. So the guys that were doing my cabinets and stuff, they had to cut the wall out that was there, and make the bar there. And she wanted the refrigerator over there, and so I had a friend of mine, in fact my neighbor down the street, his son was getting ready to go to college in North Carolina, so when he got ready to go, I emptied my trailer, my white trailer that’s sitting out here, and took all the furniture. That’s the stuff that we use on first Sunday; tables and chairs. My daughter bought that chair. I used to carry it on my little bitty truck there. My daughter bought that trailer for me for Mother’s Day.

She’s given out of stuff to buy for me. You know how when you get up to a certain





age you give out of stuff to buy for you? So she said. I was telling her about it, I think I want something to put these tables and chairs on, because I was losing my pens and stuff like that because we put everything on chafers and stuff. We do it up girl. And so she bought that trailer. We found the trailer online at Craigslist, and we bought that trailer. So now we have the option of keeping all of the chairs in there, because I would load them up. My grandson would have to load up the truck to take to whoever’s house we were going to, get back home late in the afternoon.

They got to unload it. So now we have the trailer, and they can stay in there. And whenever it’s time for whoever’s house it is, they hook up to they truck or whatever it is, and take it to they house, and they able to set up and do whatever they want to. They can come whenever they want to just before first Sunday and pick up the trailer. Just like next weekend they’ll hook it up and they’ll take it to Orlando, because we do a tailgate for the classic.

	J:	The Bethune-Cookman University and Florida A&M? A:	Yes, and what are you?

	J:	Well, my dad, he’s a rattler. Most of my family went to FAMU.



	A:	Well I used to work with a—I have a friend of mine Lieutenant Jones, he’s BCC. My sister who died, she’s BCC. So my sister Betty portrays BCC. So whenever we’re rivaling—and you know what I like about the rivaling that we do? I don’t know about the other schools, but it’s a good rival. We just have so much good times in rivaling. So we all get down there, and I put all of my FAMU paraphernalia all around and everything and all. First we used to just do a tailgate with a tent. As we grow, the Lord blesses us to do other things. Now we have an RV. My nephew bought an





RV, so we have an RV. We got a big old grill that we pull on one of the trucks. We pull a big old, this trailer here. I don’t know if they are going to take the other one, because we have two trailers that we generally take. I don’t know if they are taking both trailers now, but when we got off that’s what we do. I don’t know how they’re going because my son and my nephew, they drive motorcycles now. So you see I have another big old utility shed out there, because we have to house motorcycles now. The girl cross the street, they have a motorcycle group now, the High Springs Motorcycle Group.

	J:	So you have a really close family? A:	Uh—huh.

	J:	Do you remember much about your grandparents?



	A:	My grandparents died when I was very little. I do remember going to the house where my grandparents was living. I hate it because of the fact that we lost that property, because what happened with my aunt, the one who’s living now, moved to Philadelphia. We did not, and we being young as we were, we did not know how she left the house. And of course during that time, just like they do now, that’s why a lot of the land that we have around here was owned by a White man, because they’ll turn around, and they’ll end up knowing that your house is, your land is going up, and hasn’t been paid, and they’ll go out and they’ll pay it for little or nothing and they snatched it from you. And being young as I was I didn’t know what she did or how she left, but she just up and left and went to Philadelphia. And without informing anybody what’s what about that property, we ended up losing that property.





	J:	Was that here in High Springs too?



	A:	Yes. Yes. That’s right beyond our cemetery. Pine Hills Cemetery that my parents’ land were in. We ended up losing that too to White. Of course when I—I tried to research it later after I got up and all, but of course people had done began building on it and all, so it was no way for me to try to acquire about how to get it back. We lost that. This particular land that I have here, the people that on it was really from High Springs—Ft. White area, but they were living in Philadelphia when I contacted them about this land. This is what I admired about it. They said, “We have no plans to come back, but I know you. I know your family. I don’t know you, but I know your family. And if you want to keep it in the area in your family, I will gladly let you have it, so talk with your attorney.” Which I did, and I was able to acquire this big strip of land to have my house built on. Of course this land runs across in front of my family house, and one reason why I wanted all of it was because of the fact that I was able to set my…someone else could have come in and built a house right in front of my parent’s house. With me buying the land I was able to set the land back so that it was not in front of my parents’ house. If I had the money I would buy back a lot of the land that is around in this area that was family or neighborly owned, because of the fact that, as I told you, White people come in and they found out about this land, and they found out the taxes are not paid and they’ll go and pay it. And so that’s one thing I’ve been trying to do and trying to instill into Black folks—to keep your land. There is no more land. There may be more people, but there won’t be any more land, so they try to keep that into their family heritage. That’s what I try to instill.





	J:	What were your grandparents’ names?



	A:	Laura and James Wydman. In fact my grandfather is the one who built the church that I go to; Alley Chapel A.M.E. Church. He was the first one to build that church. It was Bush Harbor they call it. They worshipped at Bush Harbor. It was like up under trees. It was like a tent that they built, because he was a seller that came here from north. If I’m not mistaken it came from North Carolina. I know my dad came from North Carolina. In fact, he still has a relative in Counsel, North Carolina. There’s not a whole lot that I know about my dad’s family, even though my sisters a couple of my sisters would visit there, because they rode the train with my dad there, to counsel North Carolina. I can remember when I was young, writing letters to my dad’s sister for him in North Carolina. I’ve tried to keep in contact with the last of the relatives that lives in North Carolina. My dad, my mom’s parents James and Laura Wydman lived here in High Springs, and beyond them I don’t know.

	J:	Okay.



	A:	That was my grandparents.



	J:	Your grandfather who built the church building, what did he do for a living? Do you know?

	A:	He was a farmer. J:	He was a farmer?

	A:	Yes, I remember he used to farm. I used to remember walking around out there in there, because at that time they would have a field that ran from one end of the house all the way around to the other side of the house. The front part, you would generally have, would be farm, but all around there would be farm area, all the





way. I could remember he had a cow. And I was listening to them one day, my sister could tell you. They knew what the name they would always name their cow. I think the cow name was Betsy. I don’t remember what it was. It was something about that cow they used to milk for our milk and everything. What I really admired about the old house was the fact that it was an L shaped house that I really enjoyed, and I could remember sitting and there was a porch, always a porch on it. And I could remember sitting on the side of the porch, and my grandfather would sit there smoking a corn pipe that they made out of corn husks. They would carve a pipe from the corn that they had done let dried. They dried it in the stove or whatever it was, and they had that big old corn pipe that he would sit there smoking that corn pipe. In our family reunion stuff, we have all of this stuff. We have all these old pictures that we were able to find and keep of our grandparents. I have a picture of my grandfather, and my oldest brother who’s eighty something years old now. And them standing up with my grandmother. That’s one thing we do have is pictures of them. Now I do not have, beyond my dad and his sister’s, I do not have anyone, but I know of them. I have been in contact with the people in North Carolina and hopefully one day, if any of them have any pictures, I will be able to get copies of them and all, so that I can put that into our history book.

	J:	Wow.



	A:	We’ve been long haven’t we?



	J:	No. No, you’re doing great. I think I’m still thinking about the corn pipe. I’ve never heard of that.

	A:	Really?





J:   No, ma’am. But I will ask my dad about it now and see if…



A:  Yeah, ask him about it. They used to make pipes out of corn, the husks, the cob of the corn. You know after you eat the corn off of there?

J:   Yes, ma’am.



A:   They would take those things and make pipes out of them. J:   Wow. So interesting.

A:  Yeah, stick a hole in them, two holes in them whatever it is. I don’t know what the part that they smoked from was made out of, but I do remember that the pipe was made out of the corn husks. Ask him about that.

	J:	I’ve got to. I love listening. I do this with my parents sometimes. So, did your parents, because I know my parents and grandparents sometimes they would share different stories about racism in particular, and they would just tell me certain experiences they’ve had with racism. Was that a topic in your family? Did you ever hear stories?

	A:	Yes, but I don’t remember a whole lot about it. I do remember that when we used to go downtown, there were…we had to go to the bathroom before we go downtown, because you didn’t have a whole lot of facilities downtown for Blacks. A lot of this that you see about drinking in fountains and stuff like that, it wasn’t for us. I can remember when integration was taken on and I can remember some of the people tried to go to…we used to have a drugstore that had a fountain drink area—oops I mean stools around. And some people tried to go in there to sit, and it was like a lunch diner place where you could sit and stuff. I remember people trying to go in there and sit down, they were practically thrown out. That’s when I can remember





the people coming into town as Ku Klux Klans.



	J:	Into High Springs?



	A:	Yeah, I can remember that. I can remember, me and my sister and them—I hope they don’t come back and charge me for this. Me and my sister, my sister and her husband, a friend of ours, and that couple, and my husband and I…we had been to a club in Lake City. Columbia County, well I’ll tell you about that. Columbia County has just changed from being a very, very red-neck area. We stopped on our way back from this club to get us something to eat. It was a truck stop right as you come across 75 on 441, and we stopped there and we sat at the counter to order some food. The lady came and put water down, but she was hesitant about taking orders from em because her manager was telling her, “We’re not going to serve them.” I can remember my husband turning the glass upside down on the counter, and he turned it so fast that the water was still there in it. So what happened was I could remember him doing that. I don’t remember how many of them he did like that, but I know the glass where we were sitting he did it like that. I said, “Calvin, why are you doing that?” He said, “Just wait, they not go serve us so Imma treat them.” I can remember the lady reaching for the glass, cause I guess she thought he had drank the water, and just had turned the glass upside down, and she reached for the water and when she did water just went everywhere and when they did we could tell that the manager was calling the cops. We jumped in our cars and we hauled tail back to Alachua County, because see right across the bridge is Columbia County versus Alachua County, and we hauled in just before we crossed over the bridge into Alachua County we could see—we met the cops heading to





	the truck stop. We never went back to that truck stop again. [Laughter] J:	Wow. Wow. What was the name of that truck stop then?

	A:	A-1 Truck Stop.



	J:	A-1? Wow. And all for just turning the glasses over?



	A:	And not wanting to serve us. They would not serve us. They never did take an order from us. Never would take an order from us. That I can remember when I was coming up. And my sister reminded me about it the other day. She said, “You remember, your husband?” And I said, “Don’t remind me.” [Laughter]

	J:	What was your husband’s name?



	A:	Calvin Smith. My son was named after him. Yes I have a son named Calvin Smith, Juan Smith, and Eyvonne Marble. Yes I have three different kids, the last one is the only one that’s different.

	J:	Now, I was going to bring us up today a little more. What’s one of the biggest changes you’ve seen here in High Springs over the years?

	A:	Well we have been able to be involved. We weren’t involved. I don’t know if they would let us into a lot of the politics for High Springs. We’ve had on and off. We’ve had different ones to be commissioners, mayors, and different things for the city. At present I’m chairman of the planning board. I’ve been on the planning board now for a few years. They have allowed us to be involved in things where we weren’t allowed to be involved in things. I hope that this continues, because I would hate to see…High Springs hasn’t grown as much as it could, because I don’t know if you’re aware, but we don’t have sewage all over High Springs at present. That’s one things they’re trying to kick—is the fact of sewage for everyone. We have a lot





of people that come from down south and different parts of the state that moves here, and High Springs is a very unique little town. We have a lot of people coming in now and trying to make it a little Miami, or a little North Carolina, or something like that. And High Springs have, like I said, that’s one of the things that stood out for us is the uniqueness of our little quaint town. And these people have come and tried to change it to fit what they came from, but a lot of times people say that they move from this to get to something better, but if you moving from that to get to something better don’t try to change this to be what you had, because then you’re going to have it back to what you left in the first place.

	J:	Right.



	A:	And this is what I’ve admired about the little quaint town, and I hope it continues to be, but I hope that the people in the community continue to see that we are a unique little town, and there’s nothing bad that I can really say that can’t be fixed; little things. I would really love for it to stay the way it is.

	J:	Okay. I’m gonna ask you about our president, President Obama. Back in 2007 when he first announced that he was running for the presidency, what were your feelings? Did you think that it’d be possible for him to be elected? Or did you know much about him at the time?

	A:	Oh yeah. I felt that it was possible. I felt that I personally as well as I would pull other people into doing as much as they possibly can to make sure that that happened. Not only then, now I would be doing the same thing; doing as much as I possibly can to see that it has happened. I generally have a voter’s registration drive. There are some people that I found out that say they had, “I can use my son.”





They had a charge back years ago, but these people have changed their life. Give them the opportunity to be able to express that by allowing them to be citizens, and not not allowing them to vote, whether they’re not allowing them to vote. I had a gentleman to come up to the election, in fact I had two. They’ve had problems in their life, but they’ve changed, and when a person has changed don’t try to hold them down by not allowing them to be able to vote. If a person has five to ten years that they haven’t been in trouble, give them the opportunity to change. And I guess when I worked in the jail system, like I have, I see that, and I know that if a person has changed, if you don’t allow them to voice that change, then you’re just holding them back down instead of allowing them to move forward and to be somebody. That’s one thing that I hope that we will continue to do and all—the government will continue to do, and not just holding these people down. I can remember during Obama time, they allowed these people to—they waivered that. But now they want to hold that back against them, because that’s when I saw that within the three guys that I had to come before me at election time, and I know two of them had—I didn’t know that much about the other—but I do know two of them has changed a great deal. You get to know everyone in the community. You know whether they doing something wrong, or anything and I knew a couple of them. I told them anyway that I can help, let me know, because of the fact that if they changed we need to keep this change that Obama started back during his first presidential election to change. I can go on and on with you about President Obama, because a lot of people don’t see, they haven’t been aware of the fact that Obama has done so much more than any other president that we have ever had, because they’ve





got blinders on and don’t see, are not involved to see that that man…just like I take for myself. He goes beyond the call of duty in his work and everything. That’s admirable right there. I look at his wife, not because she’s a Princeton graduate like my daughter, but because of her! Yes, I’m not a sleeveless person, but if that’s her thing that’s her. It doesn’t degrade her in anyway because she wears things sleeveless. That’s just her. To me, they give me the impression that they are down to earth people like I see you and me to be. I’ve had a lot of awards, accolades, and stuff like that, but that’s not going to change me. I know it, because the thing that always come to me is the fact that my daddy always said “Don’t forget where you come from.” And that’s the thing that I instill, and I try to instill in my daughter and anyone that comes around. Don’t forget where you come from! Don’t get too bighead that you forget where you come from. If you get that mentality in you, you lose people. I can go out into the drug area and they’ll say, “Hey Ms. Eyvonne.” Or somebody may even say Mrs. Smith. I know that they’re from the old school when they do that. And they want to talk to me. I’ve had a gentleman to come to me one day, and he threw his arms around me. No he was not clean, but I knew what I had on. It was either washable or it can go in the cleaner. You don’t brush people off because of where they are. I had a gentleman the other night I was going to choir rehearsal, and he was getting ready to ride his bicycle and it was getting dark and I said, “Baby,” I said, “whatever it is you got to do today, put it off until tomorrow.” I says, “These officers try to find fault in you whenever you’re riding a bicycle without a light.” I said, “Go back to the house, and in the morning get on your bicycle and go do what you was going to do now, because whatever it is it can wait until





tomorrow. Because—number one—if you ride that bicycle with no lights on it, if someone hits you, even I, it is devastating to people when they hit someone.” I have a cousin who hit a guy that was riding on the side of the road. I don’t know if you heard about it several years ago. He was bringing his sister something home, and my cousin hit this guy, and this thing worries him still. There is no one intention to hit anyone and kill him, and if they do that that’s bad. These are the things that I try to instill in young people. Even if I see someone my own age and out there I tell them you don’t want to drink, or get out there in the streets as you are now.

[Cell Phone Rings]



	A:	Classmates. [Laughter]



	J:	You know actually you’ve answered a lot of my next questions. I was going to ask you about Michelle Obama; your thoughts about her. And I wanted to ask you on that actual election night of 2008, the 44th president, Black, first Black president of the United States…how did that make you feel?

	A:	I was just ecstatic. You know a lot of people say you feel bad. “I didn’t want him to be up there.” Me? I was blown out of this…We were just walking around there hollering an screaming. My nephew, I have a few family members that went to Washington, that were there. And when the election was coming up, of course me, I was working. I work election. So I had just come in to get. Well, one thing about Alachua County, Alachua County is—I hate to say it—a semi-kind of like red-neck area. The counts were not up as well as they should have been for Obama. I can say this, there was a lot of prayer that went into this. I just knew, even though our counts were low, they weren’t that low that I didn’t feel that the surrounding areas





and stuff weren’t going to uplift that man, and they did. They did. I don’t know about you, but there isn’t too much in any of my walks of my life, from my church or anything, that they don’t talk positive about what happened at that time. A lot of people ask me, I had someone to ask me the other day, “Do you think he’s going to have a chance this time?” I said, “Oh yeah, he’s got a chance.” You’ve got to keep that positiveness, and you’ve got to do just like we did then, work toward for him. I worked for him then. The only time I did not work for him is when I was at the booth, because I have a job there at the booth, and I have to be neutral at the booth. Other than that whenever I would do that count at the end, because we did early voting a lot which helped us a whole lot.

	J:	Yes. That’s right. I remember.



	A:	I did a lot of early voting. During that time and all when we were doing a lot of early voting, we would have to close out. We would close out, we would have to run the tape that gives you the count. The few Black people, or should I say the Obamas that were there would say, “We’re moving on up.” [Laughter] We knew that we were moving on up. Then we had a lot of them that, of course, you can’t change. Some red-necks you just can’t change. We did it. I feel that if we keep pushing the issue, and I don’t know if you noticed in my truck I’ve already got my 2012 Obama thing. I don’t put stickers on my truck, but in my windshield I’ve got my 2012. They send me my paraphernalia, and I use it. I put it around in there and that’s me.

Number one, I can keep my paraphernalia in my truck, in my truck, because during election time I don’t drive my truck because of so much material that I have to carry. I have to drive my son’s. I switch out with my son and drive his SUV,





because I have to pick up all of my election supplies, and I have to keep it locked until the day of election, but I’ll have it everywhere I go.

	J:	Now, have you ever met President Obama? A:	No. Personally, no.

	J:	If you had the opportunity to meet him, what would be one of the first things you would say to him or ask him?

	A:	What I would say to him? J:	Yes.

A:  Thank you and keep it up! That’s one of the things. Now of course I met Michelle. I didn’t actually talk with her, but I was about from here to that chair from her. I have got pictures of her when she stood on the…at the, in Gainesville.

J:   In front of the Hippodrome?



	A:	Yes, I was given a ticket to be there for her that day. I was right there. I took some pictures of her. People would hand me their camera, because I was one of those that was close up at that particular time.

	J:	Now, Barack Obama, and this is really I’d say about the last question I have for you. The criticism that he’s getting as president…do you think it’s more racists based versus all of the other presidents and criticism.

A:   Yes, yes. It is. To tell you the truth, he’s done more positive things. I look at, I hate to use Bush, but the last president as an example, we wouldn’t have to be. I know the law says and even the Bible says that there’s going to be wars and stuff, but a lot of the stuff that we’ve had to endure with we wouldn’t have had to straighten out if Bush had not made it the way it was before he got there. Bush did a lot of this





money spending and salary raising of all of these people, I don’t know if you’re aware of that just before he left office. I’m not saying that it was because he knew Obama was go come in but he did it. I hate to say it, but I feel that it was spitefully that he did this. Obama has to go in there and take all this back, and correct all of this and all to correct, to try to get all of us—he came in at a bad time, but he came in ready to work, because we’ve had depression times and these are things that God has spoken that we would go through. He came in at that time, and because of the fact that he hasn’t been able to fix it all, but he’s had a big turnaround of it. He’s had a big turnaround of it. He can’t be blamed for it. Even, a lot of people say “What about your money? You’re not getting all of your money and all the social security.” Well, I don’t feel like I would have gotten it if it had been someone else. I really don’t. I feel that he’s doing his best. As I always tell everybody, he has gone beyond the call of his duty. And I don’t know why but any time a Black person is in a position, I always see that they go over and beyond the call of their duty in doing things compared to—an African American will always go beyond the call of their duty in doing things. That’s not because I’m an African American. That’s what I see.

	J:	Have you experienced that too, with like, with the positions you said that you were like the first Black in a lot of different things? Did you feel that, too? Like that pressure that you had to go?

	A:	I…yes. I look at it. I take for instance the election that we had. I was amazed that my sister who worked on my election team saw that too. She said, “If anyone else, they would have been given better respect.” I had to often ask the audience,





because when we close out the election poll we have absentee ballots that we open right in front of the public. And when we are doing that, they’ll make a noise. And I’m calling out the ballot to my constituents that’s sitting there tallying it for me. I don’t feel like that I would have had the disrespect that I did I have if I hadn’t have been the Black clerk. Even though I’ve been doing this for umpteen years and they know that, I had a few individuals that I probably mentioned to you

that complimented me on the way I handled it, because I had some individuals that—I have a hundred foot line where they have to be. I have some individuals that intentionally, I don’t know it was intentionally, wanted to sit beyond the hundred foot. I have this thing and I don’t know if anyone else would do it, but I do it. I walk around my precinct and I check it out. That’s me. When I walked down, I saw these people sitting at the table which is beyond my hundred feet. I know my hundred feet. I’ve been doing it so many years I can tell you. Right there to the fire hydrant to the other side is hundred feet. Right there to that third car drive up pool is the other one. I know them in my head. Even though my deputy marks it out with the rope, I know where it is, because I’ve been doing it so long. So when I walked down and the lady says, “You voted.” I said, “Yes.” She said, “Your sister and all of that voted.” I said, “Yes.” She didn’t realize that she was answering just what I was told she was doing. She was interacting with the voters. You don’t interact with the voters at my precinct. So what I did was, when I walked down the line to meet my four candidates, I stopped at each one of their booths. They said, “Have something.” I took a donut or whatever it was. I found out that they were not agreeable that these people were sitting at this table. So instead of me making the





decision, I come back in and I enter the building and I call my city manager. I say, “At the picnic table that’s on the side of the civic center, I have some people sitting there.” I said, “They say there not interacting with the voters, but they are. I’ve had complaints about it so I want to ask them to move.” If I had asked Pam Carpenter, she would have said, “You’re in charge of that precinct, you do what you feel you have to do.” So I went out, and I asked them to move. They said “We’re calling Pam.” I say, “Do that. I’m in charge of this precinct.” So, they moved their table.

They moved from that table, and they had a table and got a canopy, and set it on the other side of the fire hazard. I know they did not like it, but I don’t know what Pam told them, but undoubtedly Pam—that’s one thing I can say about her. If I tell them it’s Black, she’s going to say it’s Black, because like she tell me, “That’s your precinct. If you say they got to move, they got to move.” Well when I went back out again, they had moved on the other side. I didn’t porch them, but say anything to them. And I’m not one of those people to say, “I got you.” I was in control. I was. I got it done. I’m looking forward to this presidential election. I may not work as hard as I did before, but I plan to.

	J:	Well you’ve got me looking forward to it now. A:	[Laughter]

	J:	You do.



	A:	And I don’t just put him up there, because I’m a contributor. It’s not too many days that I don’t have something from somebody on the Obama campaign that’s sending me an email. And then, like I said, I don’t put him up there because he’s the president. I put him up there because I’m—he’s my president, and I’m proud of





him. And I pray that he stay my president for another term.



	J:	So any advice that you would give to this generation here to like your kids, to me? A:	Well they know how I feel about it. If you want to see some change, and you want to keep seeing some changes, you better keep President Obama in there,

because we’re coming out. They say we’re not, but we’re going to come out of depression, and when we do, then that’s when they will see just how great—I hate to say how great they are, but it is. How great they are. [Laughter]

	J:	Anything you would like to add or like to share? A:	No, I’m glad I was here to help you dear.

	J:	Yeah, I appreciate you being here.



	A:	And I hope that what I’ve given you—I’m a talker—but I hope that what I gave you has been helpful with what you need.

	J:	Absolutely.



	A:	And I’m willing to help you again anytime. Just let me know. J:	Well, I’m going to cut off our tape now.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Jennifer Romero, June 9, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019