AAHP 793; Carter; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 793 Edgar Carter 2-28-2020 Interviewed by Ray Eberling on February 28, 2020

44 minutes | 35 pages



Abstract: Born in Pensacola, Florida in 1952, Edgar Carter received seven medals— including those for Good Conduct, Meritorious Service, Presidential Citation, Marksmanship, and Vietnam—for his service in the U.S. Air Force. In this interview, he reflects on his childhood and schooling, describing Pensacola’s process of educational integration that began during his junior year of high school. He also describes growing up during segregation in the Jim Crow era U.S. South. He explains joining the Air Force soon after his high school graduation in 1971. He details his experiences in basic training and throughout his military assignments over the next several years until his service concluded in 1978. In 1979, Carter began working at Saint Regis Paper Company, but soon after, he switched jobs and worked at a chemical plant until 1998. After that particular chemical plant closed, he was hired at another, where he worked from 1999 until 2016, at which point he “medically retired” due to multiple surgeries.

Carter concludes by detailing the history of his American Legion post, Post 193—where he served as post commander five separate times. He lists the names of the people who were “instrumental” in founding American Legion Post 193, referring to them as “our founding fathers.”



Keywords: [African American history; American Legion; Jim Crow; integration; Pensacola, Florida; segregation; veterans’ history; Vietnam War]



AAHP 793

Interviewee: Edgar Carter Interviewers: Ray Eberling Date: February 28, 2020



	E:	This is Ray Eberling with the University of Florida’s Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is February 28, 2020, and we’re at Post 193, the American Legion, in Pensacola, Florida. And who am I speaking to?

	C:	You’re speaking with Edgar Carter. Edgar A. Carter. E:	Okay. Could you just spell that for the record?

	C:	E-D-G-A-R, C-A-R-T-E-R.



	E:	Okay. Let’s get started with your whole life history, your childhood and everything. So could you tell me when and where you were born?

	C:	I was born right here in Pensacola, Florida, not too far from here. A few blocks from here.

	E:	Okay, and what date? C:	June 30, 1952.

	E:	[19]52. Were you born in a hospital? C:	Yes.

E:   You were?



	C:	Yes.



	E:	What was the name of that hospital? C:	Our Ladies of Angels.







E:

Okay. So near here?

C:

Yeah. Downtown.

E:

Okay. And so you grew up here?

C:

Yes.

E:

And you said just not far from here.

C:

Not far from here.

E:

Did the neighborhood have a particular name?

C:

Have what now?

E:

Have a particular name?

C:

Al—that I go by?

E:

No, not you. I’m sorry, the neighborhood.

C:

The neighborhood.

E:

I’m sorry, yeah.

C:

No, it was just Pensacola. [Laughter]

E:

But you must have had a neighborhood, grow up with a sense of community.

C:

Yeah, Haynes Street. Haynes Street.

E:

Haynes Street.

C:

Yeah, yeah.







E:

And you pretty much stayed in the—

C:

Yes.

E:

—same household growing up?

C:

Yeah.

E:

How ‘bout your parents? What did they do for a living?

C:

My mother was basically a housekeeper at the start, and then she went to school—a real nice school—and then she became formerly an Escambia County

School Board worker in the cafeteria.

E:

Oh, okay.

C:

N. B. Cook Elementary, at the time.

E:

And as far as this area and siblings—you have siblings?

C:

Yes, yeah. I have three sisters and two brothers.

E:

Okay. And where do you fit in that mix?

C:

I’m the oldest.

E:

Oh, okay.

C:

I’m first born.

E:

Did you have to act like the oldest?

C:

Yes, I did.

E:

Help ‘em take care of the—





	C:	Yes, yes.



	E:	Okay. What was it like growing up here? Did you like it? Did you have a lot of neighborhood friends and kids you knew at school?

	C:	Oh, yeah. It was very close knit, not like today. You didn’t get away with much.



The neighbors were pretty much abreast of every kid in the neighborhood. If you did something wrong, the parents are gonna know about it before you got home. And the strange thing about it is we didn’t have a telephone, but it was there when I got there.

	E:	Like a neighbor telephone, okay. Where did you start going to school at?



	C:	Jalen Pickett Elementary, which I lived two doors from, so that’s where I was living in the neighborhood. I lived two doors from my elementary school, where I grew up there. School campus was like the neighborhood playground. Parents weren’t that much worried about you playing in the streets and everything, because you were at liberty to play on the school campus, but that was it.

	E:	So let me think there. You were born in [19]52. You started school in—did they have kindergarten then, or did you go right to first grade?

	C:	I did go to kindergarten. I attended Saint John Divine Baptist Church. E:	Okay.

	C:	We had kindergarten in the back of the church there, and I started there about four years old.

	E:	Oh, okay, but then you did start first grade in the public school?





	C:	In the public school. Yes, I did.



	E:	Okay. So you attended all six grades at that school? C:	Yep, all six grades. Elementary, yes.

	E:	And then you went to a junior high?



	C:	Went to junior high. Seventh grade I went to Brown Barge Elementary, but it was like first through seventh grade, and then finished seventh grade over there, and I went to Booker T. Washington Junior High in my eighth grade year. Then Washington Senior High, they opened ninth through twelfth. So I finished up at Booker T. Washington Senior High to hard drive ninth through twelfth, and then I graduate there in 1971.

	E:	[19]71. Okay. Now I know we go back into some of our American civil rights history. We have Brown vs. School Board in 1954 that was supposed to integrate the schools, but that did not happen here locally.

	C:	No.



	E:	Did it happen at all even towards the end of your schooling?



	C:	It did happen, but my school was integrated in my junior year of high school. E:	At Washington?

	C:	At Washington, yeah.





	E:	Did you or any of your neighborhood friends, did they try to do like the freedom of choice thing where supposedly somebody wanted to go to a white school they could have?

C:  Yeah, they could have. Yep, yeah. As a matter of fact, AB Club, which is right down the street from here, my mother got a letter from them one day, but she didn’t want me to go there. So I ended up going to Brown Barge.

E:   Oh, okay.



C:  So she just kept me out of that. E:  That whole system in there.

C:   Mmhm.



E:  If you graduated in 1971, that was about the time there was all sorts of court cases that said you’re gonna have one unitary high school system or school system. Had you already graduated at that point, as far as you know?

C:   You mean like when they went through a zoning?



	E:	They had to merge schools or close schools or something? Do you recall any of that?

	C:	Actually what they did was putting zones— they zoned us. I was in a zone. I stayed at my high school, but I had some of my best friends lived on the other side of town. By them zoning out, they had to go to school like Pensacola High School. They had to go to Escambia High School. And they kinda just—

	E:	So the major experience, difference of experience.





	C:	Yes, yes. By zoning. By re-zoning.



	E:	But as far as you were concerned, you were at your old high school, and you were pretty much comfortable where you were?

	C:	Yeah. Right.



	E:	Did you play sports or music or any of that?



	C:	No, I didn’t do it. I tried, but [Laughter] I was more or less an entrepreneur. I threw papers and everything. So playing sports and so forth was—I wanted the money, so I threw papers and everything.

	E:	And you say threw papers, it’s the Pensacola News Journal? C:	Yep, Pensacola News Journal, correct.

	E:	Okay.



	C:	Yep, yep.



	E:	So did you finish high school then at George Washington? C:	Yes.

	E:	In 1971?



	C:	[19]71. 1971.



	E:	I know you went in the service eventually. Did you have a period of time in there before?

	C:	Yeah, I graduated in June 1971, and I went in the military in November 1971.





E:   Okay, not too far out. And the draft had gone away or it was just going away?



	C:	It was going going away, and I figured if I was gonna do it, I was gonna volunteer to go where I wanted to go, and I wanted Air Force.

E:   So what led you towards the Air Force?



C:  Well, I had a cousin that was in the Air Force. My mother’s nephew. That kinda led me toward it. I’m not a swimmer. So I knew Navy— Then I had a uncle that was a marine, and that didn’t sit off too good with me either. So I enlisted in the Air Force.

E:  Seemed like a pretty good deal? C:  Mmhm.

E:  You think it was a pretty good decision on your part, as far as what to choose from?

C:   Yes, yes. No regrets.



	E:	So you went in in November, I think. C:	November 1971.

E:   1971. Lackland Air Force Base?



	C:	Lackland Air Force Base. That’s correct. E:	Six weeks of basic training?

	C:	Yes.





	E:	Do you remember your drill sergeant? C:	McCullah. Sergeant McCullah.

	E:	Was it a pretty positive experience overall?



	C:	Yeah, I guess I kicked off pretty good. Right there I became a squad leader. E:	A squad leader.

	C:	I wrote down all this.



	E:	Oh, wow. I know who wrote this. So from the sounds of it, your neighborhood, as a community, watched out after your kids growing up. You think that maybe made it a little easier transition to the military or was that a whole new difficult thing for you?

	C:	Well, once I did it and the reality sunk in when I left, it sunk in, “Why did I do this?”

[Laughter]



	E:	This is like halfway through basic or something?



	C:	There were like, “Just let me get my little grip back and everything and point me east.”

	E:	Okay. Six weeks of basic training. C:	Six weeks of basic training.

	E:	And did you know what career field you were gonna go into at that time or you find out during?







C:

No idea.

E:

They tell you at the end?

C:

Right at the end. A few days before I graduated from basic training.

E:

What’d they tell you?

C:

Security police, Lackland Air Force Base, Texas. I went like, “Oh, Lord, I gotta



stay here?”

E:

That’s right, the school was there.

C:

Everybody was getting orders going somewhere that was basic for their training



or a tech school, and my tech school was right there.

E:

And how many weeks was that about? Do you remember?

C:

Probably about the same as basic training.

E:

So about six.

C:

Yeah, about six weeks. I started like the first part of January, and I was out of



there in February.

E:

And as I recall back to basic, I remember a lot of marching and a lot of running—

C:

Yeah.

E:

But I think there was one day to learn to fire an M-16.

C:

Yeah.

E:

Obviously when you got to security police training, what was that training like?





	C:	Same. Well, it was more of the firing range. I think they called it AZR training.



Vietnam was going on then and everything. So we had to go out on the obstacle course and run through that. Pretty much just becoming a military police. You had to learn the codes.

	E:	The laws?



	C:	Yeah, law enforcement. How to treat your weapon, how to use your weapon.



Shoot to maim rather than kill. Like I said, there were an awful lot that were dead, so it was extreme.

	E:	You didn’t get into dog handling? C:	No.

	E:	That was a separate specialty, wasn’t it? C:	Yeah, yeah.

	E:	So after SP school, your first assignment?



	C:	My first assignment, it was with the Air Force Base, Rapid City, South Dakota.



SAC.



	E:	Strategic Air Command, okay. And were you in law enforcement or security? C:	I was in security.

	E:	So you got to march around the— C:	B-52s.

	E:	—B-52s and AC-135s.





	C:	AC-135’s.



	E:	Every once in a while a klaxon would go off? C:	Yes.

	E:	All of the air crew would come running out. How long were you at Elsworth? C:	Too long.

[Laughter]



	E:	That was what they called a northern tier base, as I recall.



	C:	Yeah, I spent my entire first enlistment there. And I got kinda lucky—I say lucky but I was lucky enough—I did pretty good on my Stand Board scores and everything. So I was selected to go work for Security Stand Board. But my Sergeant at the time, when he was getting ready to retire, my name also came up to go be in NCO Leadership School at March Air Force Base. So he said, “Imma let you go over there to NCO Leadership School first, and when you come back Imma make my mind up if I’m gonna let you go to Security Stand Boards.

Okay. So I went to March Air Force Base, NCO Leadership School, got back to Elsworth. Buy the way, it was nice to get away from Elsworth in South Dakota California. When I got back, he said, “Well, I’m letting you got to Security Stand Boards.” But I had it in my mind I wasn’t gonna reenlist. That was gonna be it. But then I got to the job and everything and all those guys were around drinking coffee and this that and the other and got me, “What do you wanna get out for? What’s out there? What are you gonna do?” “I don’t know.”





	E:	I think I know what Stand Board is, but could you explain it to the people who may be listening in the future?

	C:	Security Stand Board was where you went out and first of all, you had to sit down and work out a scenario, so to speak, like hiding a bomb on an aircraft. But at this time, I had left Light Line Security, and went into Minuteman Security. So that’s where I was at then. So I was going out doing missile fields.

	E:	Okay. The satellites around Elsworth.



	C:	Yeah, yeah, the tightening. All of this transition was going on by the time I got to Missile field, where I went into NCO Leadership School and Security Stand Board. But we would set up scenarios, and we had to get it approved through base and everything that we were gonna do this in this particular area. Johnny Airman so-and-so, we’re gonna have this security evaluation, see where he’s at with his job. We would go out and hide things and sit back in the mountain and just see how they responded. We know exactly what they were supposed to do. So we were checking off what they did and didn’t do. And I would call ‘em in and say, “We have to give you a test.” And we did little things like hide a pocket knife on our belt and they had to do a little search on us and everything. See if they were actually doing this pat down— wrote down. This one time, one of the ALS, this guy he—I’m sorry LCS—and this one guy, he wasn’t too particularly happy to see us in the beginning and everything. So this guy named Sergeant Dotter and I, we were both teammates. We got there and we sounded an alarm, I guess you could say, and they came out, and he was really teed up, and he threw Sergeant Dotter up on the defense line and had him spread out and had him on his tippy





toes, and he kinda said, “Get.” He was over-abused, so he didn’t pass his test. And I don’t think he really cared. But it was quite an experience. But then they told me to reenlist, and I reenlisted.

E:   But you did your first entire tour at Elsworth?



	C:	My first entire career at Elsworth. So I reenlisted, and Pensacola being my home—they had what you call the “dream sheet.” You’re probably familiar with that. So I put in for Eglin, Hurlburt Field, and Gendel. And Eglin was my first choice, and I got Eglin. So I was home. So I drove back and forth Fort Walton every day.

	E:	So this is after the war, so you’re like into [19]76, around then now? C:	Uh-huh. Yeah, I got stationed at Eglin at 1975.

	E:	[19]75, okay.



	C:	Yeah. November of 1975. So Vietnam had gone on and I stationed there. They had all—they called it “tent city.”

	E:	Yes.



C:  Okay, I didn’t see the tents but the remnants of the tents, but they had tent city built up. You could see the silhouettes of the tents where they had sit up there and everything, but they had got rid of all that.

E:   Tell us what that was, ‘cause a lot of people may not remember that.



C:  Tent city was where they had Vietnamese that had bought in that came over trying to seek citizenship in the United States. And they came over and hey put





‘em on Air Stations. Eglin was one of ‘em. I don’t know about any other Air Stations they had Vietnamese refugees after the war and everything.

	E:	Okay.



	C:	And they had them there at Eglin, and you could actually see the path where the trucks were—where the vehicles were passing up and down. I never saw anything. It was just remnants of it. You could see where it was actually at there. So it was amazing.

	E:	So Eglin was not a SAC base, was it? C:	No.

	E:	What was there at the time? C:	Eglin was a MAC military.

	E:	Airlift?



	C:	Air command. Yeah, the Air Force, basically. Fighter jets.



	E:	Yeah, the type at the time. Did you still have flight line security at the time, or what did you do?

	C:	I went back to flight line security at Eglin, yeah. E:	And you had to spend a whole tour there?

	C:	I was there from November 1975 to July of 1977.



	E:	Okay. Now, I’ll jump ahead here a little bit. Did you make the Air Force a career?







C:

No, I didn’t. I did eight years.

E:

You did eight years. So you had two years to go when you got [inaudible



00:17:19]?

C:

Several, yeah. Right in that area.

E:

And where was that?

C:

I went to Mürted Air Force Base, Turkey.

E:

Name of the base again?

C:

Mürted.

E:

Mürted? Okay.

C:

Mürted Air Base, Turkey. Yep. It was right outside of the capital Ankara.

E:

Yes. And flight line?

C:

No. WSA. Weapon Storage Area.

E:

Weapon Storage Area. Okay. What type of American aircraft did you have there



at that point? I believe it’s closed now.

C:

Basically, they had the Turkish Air Force. We had nothing to do with the flight



lines.

E:

Oh, okay.

C:

We strictly had a weapon storage area.

E:

You strictly had a weapon storage area.





	C:	Yeah, yeah, yeah.



	E:	Okay. And you spent your last two years doing that? C:	I did twelve years unaccompanied there.

	E:	Oh, twelve years?



	C:	I’m sorry, twelve months.



	E:	Twelve months. I was gonna say. Wow.



	C:	Twelve months. Twelve months unaccompanied. I did twelve months unaccompanied there and had some little mishaps back at home. I left. My wife was pregnant and had to come back to the states to have my first—our first— child. And they had some complications with the pregnancy and so forth. I had put in for a humanitary—I had to go back over. I had less than ninety days.

	E:	Yeah.



C:  But he turned it down, and I had to go back over. With less than ninety days on my assignment, they put me somewhere in the United States. I didn’t care, just not have to go back. And then, he turned it down. So that didn’t sit too well.

When I got back to Turkey, my orders came down. Take a guess where I was going?

E:   Where?



C:  Ellsworth Air Force Base, South Dakota. [Laughter] E:  Oh, my.





	C:	Yes, and my wife was a registered nurse. She worked in the university—not university. She worked in the West Lauren Hospital in the cardiac ward, and she done got promoted to the head nurse. And we were already living in her parents’—her parents were deceased, so we were living in the parents’ house. I had made up my mind for sure now. I’m getting out. There’s no if’s and’s or but’s about it. I’m getting out. So I did all of that, and they said, “You’ve still gotta go to South Dakota.” I ended up going there, and I wrote up a lot of letters. I told them it didn’t make no sense to me to put my family up. By the time our furniture got up there, it would be time to turn around, they’d send me back. I’d be coming back home.

	E:	Sure.



	C:	So they gave me base quarters and everything, and I turned it back in and I went back to the barracks. So we made up our mind to see whichever way it goes, fight it to get out early or are we just gonna see where you are. Which she did.

So after a while, I was there and then my grandfather passed. It was getting a little hard. I had a lot of hardships during that time. I wrote up some letters and I went to Sergeant Major. He was the head of the personnel. CPC. He’s called a “C-BO.”

	E:	Yes.



	C:	Yeah, yeah. And he got with me and everything. He told me, “Sergeant Carter, you got a good—” And he said, “Let me work on this and everything.” And in the meantime, they sent me off with emergency leave and I came home for





grandfather’s funeral. And when I got back in December, I went there in September. In December, I was a free man, and I was out. That was the end of my Air Force career.

	E:	Okay. Again, CBPO, just for the record, Consolidated Base Personnel Office, there you go.

	C:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I called C-BO so much and everything. I’m glad you were able to do that. [Laughter]

	E:	But okay, so you came back home to Pensacola. C:	Pensacola, correct.

	E:	And that was—do you remember the year? C:	December of 1978.

	E:	December of [19]78. And you get out. I know you have a family. I’m guessing perhaps job was the first thing on your mind?

	C:	Correct.



	E:	Or were you looking at the G.I. Bill or anything?



	C:	No, I didn’t. It crossed my mind on that and everything, but I was looking for a job, and I had family to take care of. And I knew I had my veterans’ benefits and everything. Somewhere down the line, I got a job. Through my VA loan, get a house, which I did. First job I had, friends of mine worked at—it was Saint Regis Paper Company. It was like paper. You know what it was.





	E:	Yeah.



	C:	I got out in December of [19]78, and I started over there in January of 1979. So I kinda hit the ground running and was pretty lucky, because by the time I filed for my unemployment, the day I got my first unemployment check, I was getting a check from the paper mill.

	E:	Okay, so you had to stop that.



	C:	Yeah, had to stop that one check.



	E:	I know there’s like a delay for a month or something.



	C:	Yeah. Oh, yeah. They were running through the paperwork for me and everything about it. Yeah. I stayed there probably two weeks. And I had a buddy that worked there at this chemical plant. It was called Air Products at the time. He told me about an opening there and everything. So I went for that too. I was still at the Saint Regis. I was swimming both ways. I’m not gonna lose a job looking for a job.

	E:	Right.



	C:	When they finally got me processed so I could start over there, I gave a notice to Saint Regis and I left and went to Air Product. And I stayed in the chemical field for thirty-four years.

	E:	That was tied to the military, wasn’t it? Air Products, that company? C:	No.

	E:	No? What was it?





	C:	It was a chemical plant. I worked with vinyl fluoride. We made raw base for a PVC pipe.

	E:	Oh, okay.



	C:	Yeah, so we made raw base and everything.



	E:	Okay. And you pretty much stayed there for a career then?



	C:	I stayed there about nineteen years. And what happened was, that section of the plant, they had been threatening to sell it and close it and barb wired and everything. Stuck it out, and finally they did sell it to a company called West Lake PVC. They were out of—I wanna say it was China or Japan—they were overseas. They came in, and they still have some Westlake plants in the states, but they came in and they were building a PVC plant over China—I want to say China. And they were building a PVC plant. So they came in and got the technology from us, basically. So when they started pulling the plugs on the plants, that was one of ‘em. So they pulled the plug, and I was out of a job. Like I said, I had nineteen years. I started there in January of [19]79 and September of 1998.

	E:	Wow. If I may ask, was there any type of severance they gave you?



	C:	We had what you put in your 401k when you do this, and then they gave us some pay and helped us out.

	E:	But you were able to then— C:	Apply for unemployment.





	E:	Yeah.



	C:	This time, I was able to draw on my unemployment, and I did that for six months.



Pretty good. Being like retired for six months.



	E:	Tempting though, isn’t it? You had to really start looking for something else eventually, right?

	C:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. So it went down. We was riding, radio was playing and it came up and said, “Solution.” Looking for hiring chemical operators. No experience necessary. At the time, you wanted to be a chemical operator, you had to have what they call a chemical operator course under your belt, but when I started in 1979, it was on the job training. You got trained to do. But then they came up— with accidents and everything, I guess—you had to have a chemical operator’s course. But by me having so many years in the chemical field—nineteen, almost twenty, years—I was like September of 1998 to January of 1999. I have twenty years over there. So I had experience and everything. So I went out and filled out everything, the unemployment, put my name on it and everything. They called and gave me an interview and lined me up to take a test, and I took the test, and I started out there in May of 1999. And I stayed there until February 2016. Then I got medically retired. I had some things going on in my neckline and I had some surgeries on it. And it kinda left me like this. That was my dominant hand. So I knew I couldn’t be in that chemical field.

	E:	Oh, okay.





	C:	If something should happen. There was a lot of climbing, a lot of opening and closing valves, that kind of work. That hand was weak, and that was my dominant hand. So I had surgery done, and I was like, “I can’t go back out and do that no more.” Plus, I asked my doctor. It was hard hat, safety glass, steel toe boots. Matter of fact, that was the last pair of boots I got back there. And I asked him—which I didn’t know at the time—I just asked him, I said, “Well, my job, I wear a hard hat. As I bend down to go open the valve, I forget the valve was up here, and I come up—bam. [inaudible 00:26:58].” He said, “That’s probably what happened.” I started having problems with my arm hurting and tingling. So we could get an MRI and find out what was going on. They said, “Well, what you got here is equipment to tie your water holes in a knot and open the spigot. A little bit of water is coming out. Your brain is sending out signals, but by your nerves being pinched”—this is the vertebrae, they went together like this and was pinching my nerves and was causing all this pain. So we went in and put some diagonal bones in there and opened em up and put in a steel plate in one. So I got through that and I started having some more problems. That’s when the hands started getting weak. So then they found C eight and T one had a fracture. So they went in and fused it. Said, “Will I get my hand back?” He said, “Yeah, you’ll get your hand back. Sure.” That’s my hand. That’s the left hand was good. That’s my right hand. And what I noticed I couldn’t reach this finger to this finger. So I was like, “Why I can’t get that to meet?” So they looked at it and said, “Well, this is what we gotta do. We’re gonna do a fusion.” Said, “Okay, well, it’s gotta be done.” I’m hurting. It went on from that. I’ve been retired since February of 2016.





	E:	Okay, okay. Well, if we could, let’s go back a little bit into some of the town history, neighborhood history. Taking us back to the days you were a little younger than some of the folks I’ve talked to, including myself. But back growing up in a segregated neighborhood in a segregated time. I know we had the Civil Rights Bill in 1964, but that didn’t necessarily change everything. I know we had the school board supreme court cases that did not change things in any way, very much at first. So your thoughts, if you would, first of all in your parents’ and your grandparents’ time, if they had told you stories, any hardships or growing up under segregation?

	C:	Yeah, yeah. They had some hard times. My grandmother, to my recollection was what they told us—I got a chance to actually know her. I was like maybe twelve years old when she passed. She would tell us a lot her time growing up, which was in some part of Alabama where her parents were sharecroppers and she picked the cotton and she did all of these things. Told us some pretty vivid stories about slavery, and that she—

	E:	That she had heard about?



	C:	—that she went through as a child by herself. The way they were treated. [inaudible 00:30:11]. Through it all she persevered. Came on and raised my mother and two boys. Like I said, both of them ended up going into the military. My grandfather, I didn’t get to know him too well. My grandmother was like a live- in Grandmom, so like I said, I got to know her real well.





	E:	So they grew up and lived in that period that was a hundred percent segregation?

	C:	Mmhm.



	E:	You grew up during a transitional period. Now, when you were growing up, were you personally involved or your family personally involved in some of the civil rights demonstrations and issues going on or organizations?

	C:	No, I wasn’t, but I can remember as a kid going downtown. At the time we had a little department store, Chress’s, JJ Newberry, something like that. And I didn’t know what it was. I saw it but I didn’t know why. And I saw the little water fountain thing, and my grandmother was like, “No.” And I saw the lunch counter, ropes tied through it.

	E:	Oh, when they were having sit-ins?



	C:	Yeah. Well, not the sit-ins. You couldn’t sit there. E:	Right.

	C:	Okay, and then went into one of the places and the lunch counters seats were open. I mean, Black people, colored people, you could sit there and you could order your BLT or whatever. But that was there way of saying, “No, you can’t sit here.” I remember, like I said, going downtown with my grandmother, cause we didn’t have any transportation. So we caught the city bus. I never knew why we was in the back of the bus. I mean, I just stayed on.

	E:	Yeah, everything came together.





	C:	Came together and everything. Yeah, yeah.



	E:	At that point in time in your younger years, did you have much interaction with White people, or your family?

	C:	No, I didn’t. Not until they integrated my school in my junior year. E:	Junior year.

	C:	Junior year.



	E:	Bout what percentage, do you think, of White students went to— C:	When they did integrate?

	E:	Yeah.



	C:	Well, they just followed the rezoning thing that came into play, because at that time, most Whites went to Pensacola High School. Okay? Most of the Black people went to Washington.

	E:	Washington.



	C:	And then when they rezoned and they speed it up, so Whites, they had to come to Washington High School, Blacks had to go to PHS or Escambia.

	E:	There was no choice at that point in time. C:	They had no choice, yeah, yeah.

	E:	The transition wasn’t bad, though, because I was taught to be a person that no matter what you don’t have to be there if you don’t wanna be. So the transition





was easy, but it wasn’t bad for me at all. I didn't mind it. I could’ve done it way back once I found out how it—and I had some good White friends in high school.

	E:	Did you?



	C:	Yep, yep.



	E:	Okay. Have you stayed in touch with friends over the years from your youth at all?

	C:	Yeah, we have. We’re planning our fifty year class reunion coming up probably about 2021.

	E:	Okay.



	C:	Next year.



	E:	Do you remember any, the teachers back then that made a particular impact on you? The whole time, not the time here at grade school or high school.

	C:		My fifth grade teacher whose name was Mrs. Grace Williams. She was into astronomy. She liked talking about stars, and I was always gazing up into the sky myself. It really hit me. So I had some good times with that, and I even got lucky as a big boy. This drugstore called “Alwhite and Wood” back at the time, during the Christmas holiday, fill out your name on this ticket, put it in the box. They was giving away a telescope, tripod and all. Put my name in. Then, I get a call, “You won a telescope.” That was really exciting. I got a chance to sit out and gaze at the moon, see the craters, show my little sisters and brothers, “Wow, look at the moon up there.”





	E:	Did you have a little guide or anything that you could look at and try to figure out what was what up there?

	C:	No, I never could figure out the constellations or anything like that. I knew the big dipper and the little dipper. That’s as far as I could get. [Laughter] That was about as far as I could get, but all of the other constellations I couldn’t. I gave up trying to figure ‘em out.

	E:	Did you have a favorite subject growing up in school? C:	Astronomy.

	E:	It was astronomy. That was that.



	C:	Yeah. And still to this day, I’m a little bit of a stargazer. Looking at this show once. [inaudible 00:35:08] used to come on when I was a kid.

	E:	Oh, yeah.



	C:	And it had this couple on there that had supposed—I think it was crossed the border of Canada into Michigan or something like this—and supposed they got abducted by a UFO. And they put ‘em on hypnosis video with pictures of this— And I told my mom, I said, “Oh, I wish I could get”—She said, “You crazy.” But that’s how intrigued I was—I am—about the astronomy and the space and UFOs and so forth.

	E:	Well, you belong to this post of the American Legion. When you got out of the service or up till now, any other veterans’ organizations you belonged to?

	C:	No, this is it.





	E:	This is it. Found a comfort level here? C:	Very comfortable.

	E:	Very comfortable here. And how long have you been a member here? C:	I’ve been a member thirty-nine years.

	E:	Okay.



	C:	Thirty-nine years.



	E:	How would you say the service overall impacted your outlook on life?



	C:	Oh, it was good to me. It was good more danger. Because I think otherwise—I told you what kind of trouble I might have gotten into but it was like a character building. So I was able to really know the difference between right and wrong, how to treat other people—treat ‘em as I wanted to be treated—and just respect anybody. I don’t have no picks, likes or dislikes and everything. Humans are humans. Person’s a person.

	E:	You got any advice for younger generations?



	C:	You’re not gonna go to college, go to the military. [Laughter] Get off the streets.



Do something with your life.



	E:	It matures you, you think, and gives you direction? Or how would you say— C:	Do what now?

	E:	It matures a person?



	C:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. It matures.





	E:	Gives you some direction and work? C:	Right.

	E:	Well, I’ve asked you quite a few things today. Is there anything else you’d like to say that I may have failed to ask you?

	C:	Well, I pretty much feel comfortable. I like to—I guess I said, I was talking about astronomy.

	E:	Yeah, yeah, yeah.



	C:	I’m sorta like an oral history buff a little bit, too. And I’m really concerned about where this post stand as a Black post in history, and I did a little bit there. Nothing is concrete. These are just things that I just noticed looking at our charters here. This one here says, “The colored walk better the road wars [00:37:54]. Well, that was in 1945. I asked myself, what is oldest Black post in the state of Florida?

Well, it came up to another post in Jacksonville, but then reading up the base on our charter as compared to their charter, but then there’s something going on with this being a colored post.

	E:	Yeah, your previous interview, your colleague told me about that. Yeah.



	C:	Yeah. So I’d still like to get to the bottom of it and see where we stand. I’m happy being number two if that’s what it is. I really would like to. But we got our start, Hannington Watts [00:38:37], post named after him. He was the first Black veteran in this area that was killed in the line of duty. We had a gentleman by the name of Eli Sanford Carver who served in the military also. He was a general





practitioner. He kinda came along, I think, in about [19]14. If you don’t mind, since this is gonna be history, I would like—

	E:	Oh, yeah.



	C:	—I would like to read the names off. They were instrumental— E:	This is your time.

	C:	They were instrumental in getting our permanent charter. They came out and first they gave us a temporary one. It went from colored veterans of the world war.

We were Post 47. So I think that’s where we dropped off the radar as far as where we stand as being the oldest or where.

	E:	Yeah.



	C:	Because when they gave us a temporary charter—our first temporary charter—it came back Temporary Post 193 C. So I think that Dr. Carver and these fourteen other guys, they weren’t too happy with seeing that C. So they would do something better than this. So then they gave us another temporary that says Post 193. Okay. And this is back in the [19]40s. So anyway some of the gentlemens that was in that, they didn’t have a building or post to call home or anything like this, so they met at each other’s houses. Some guys that was instrumental in getting this done was Comrade Charlie Winn, Comrade Romeo Wilson, Comrade Thomas Graham Jr., Dr. Eli Sanford Carver himself, Robin Joseph, Harry L. Whittaker, Garland Davis, [inaudible 00:40:14] McCorvey, Robert B. Jones, Trip McQuinn, Jewel George Davis, Eunice Magdole, and Henry DuBois. And I think—but this is hidden—I think it would be to me fitting for





that name to be included in this if it’s going to Congressional Library in Washington, D.C.

	E:	Yes, it is.



	C:	I think it would be well-fitted for these guys’ names to be included in that. And who knows? Somewhere down the line, maybe somebody’ll be off—relatives of mine—they know my dad or my grandad or my great-grandfather was a part of that organization. If something were to happen like “Do this interview”, I wanted to have their names spoken out so they could be said and other people could hear it or read it, whatever the case may be with it. But overall, in my thirty-nine years, I’ve served in the capacity of post commander five different times. So I have a nickname. They call me “Five-time.” “Five-time, what you gonna do?” [Laughter] Because we were having a conversation one day and they would say, “Who was the post commander? Who did”—I just said, “I’ve been post commander five times.” So it just went like—“umph”—“Five-time.” But we have a lot of mandated programs under our roof, under this umbrella. I’m currently serving as our post Boys’ State chairman. You know what Boys’ State is?

	E:	Yes, I do.



C:  Okay, I’m the chairman of that, and I am proud to say that my first year in—let’s see, this is my fourth year. So I’ve sent two, four, six, and we gonna send three this June. So this year in June, I’m gonna have sent a total of nine boys down to Boys’ State.

E:   Wow. In Tallahassee.





	C:	In Tallahassee. And you know that they’re dorm-ed at FSU campus. And of course, all this is taken—we raise all the money. The parents not out of work any. We do all of that. Once I did the first time, I was like, “I’ll do it this time, but I’m not gonna do it.” And I did it and the guys came back, and they were so overjoyed, enthused over the good time they had. And every year, it’s better and better.

	E:	I’m glad to see they still do that. C:	Yeah.

	E:	They did it in my day. C:	You a Boys’ Stater?

	E:	I was not. I had some very good friends who were. C:	Oh, oh, oh, okay.

	E:	I didn’t quite make the cut. C:	Oh, okay.

	E:	To be polite.



	C:	Yeah.



	E:	But I know very much what it is. Simulating state government in Tallahassee. C:	Exactly. Exactly, yeah, exactly. Teach ‘em all about the government. Yep.

	E:	Well, I wanna thank you again. This is great.





	C:	Yeah, and I thank you for coming in. And I am really honored that I had a chance to read those names off that charter.

	E:	Yes.



	C:	I always said our founding fathers is what I like to look at ‘em as being. They were instrumental in getting us on the map, getting us started with a charter—a permanent charter.

	E:	I should’ve asked this a long time ago. I’m gonna ask it out of sequence, but I should have asked you what your awards and decorations were.

	C:	Oh.



	E:	If you remember, cause we like to include those.



	C:	I have the Good Conduct Medal twice, [inaudible 00:43:23]. I have, of course, Meritorious Service, artillery or rifles—what you call that?

	E:	Yeah, yeah.



	C:	That. Vietnam Medal. I wasn’t in the Vietnam area, but still, if you served, you got the—

	E:	Oh, okay, like National Defense?



	C:	Yeah, you got a chance to put it on. You got a chance to wear it. I have about seven. Some of ‘em I can’t lose. Good Conduct, Meritorious, Presidential Citation, Vietnam Ribbon, Marksmanship.

	E:	Okay, well that’s good. We want that to be on the record for you.





	C:	Yeah, okay, I appreciate it.



	E:	Well, I wanna thank you again. C:	And I thank you, too. Alright.

	E:	And we’ll call it a day. C:	Okay, alright, alright. [End of Interview]

Transcribed by: Emma Donnelly, March 24, 2021



	Audit Edit by:	Kasamba Kokayi March 29, 2021, Sandra Romero, May 26, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 26, 2021