AAHP 653; Dupree; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 653 Nathaniel Turner 5-6-2019 Interviewed by Sherry Sharrod DuPree and Ryan Morini

on May 6, 2019



48 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Gainesville, Florida]



AAHP 653

Interviewee: Nathaniel Turner

Interviewer: Ryan Morini and Sherry DuPree Date of Interview: May 6, 2019







	M:	Ok, so, this is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. Today is May 6th, 2019. I’m sitting here with—

	D:	Sherry Sharrod DuPree.



	M:	And my colleague Deborah Hendricks filming and we are here speaking with, if you would like to introduce yourself ---

	T:	I can’t hear you. You got to talk louder. I don’t have my --- want me to put my hearing aids in?

	M:	Yes. Well, that might help. But, can you just say your name for the camera? T:	Nathaniel Turner.

	M	Okay, thank you --- D:	Senior.

	T:	And my address where I live? D:	Yes.

	T:	I live in --- she said yeah, you said no --- what do I do?



	M:	We’re ok there. But, can we ask when and where you were born? T:	I was born in Jonesville.

	M:	Jonesville?





	T:	Yeah, Jonesville. In 1929, December 1929.

	M:	Okay. In Jonesville, and I don’t know if you wanted to jump in with the questions. D:	Yes, if you were born in 1929 in Jonesville, that was --- are you familiar with the

Dudley Farm?



	T:	Yeah, I knew the Dudley’s, Ralph Dudley and Frank Dudley. I used to pick up pecans for one of his sisters and that was Mable Dudley.

	D:	Mable Dudley?



	T:	They’ve all been deceased now; you know?



	D:	Yes. Who were some of the African Americans that were out in that area? After you were eight or ten years old. Who did you play with? Who did you have association with?

	T:	I played with my brother. My daddy died when I was, like, three years old--- D:	I see.

	T:	My mother was kinda tight. She didn’t --- we had a farm and we had a little, I think we had, one mule and five horses. [Coughs] Excuse me. And we wasn’t allowed to go so far and my aunt lived in Neebo. We could go there but we had to ride a horse, you know? I had like a settling pony, but they didn’t work him, I just ride him. Go to the mailbox. Ride him to Newberry and take corn --- sell corn. And I was too small to put the corn on the horse. But they put some in a sack on here and here and tie a string between it and throw it across the horse’s





shoulder and then they’d put me on the horse and I would go to Newberry. And I got to Newberry, they had [2:37 Inaudible] you know a [2:39 Inaudible]?

	D:	Yes sir.



	T:	Farm was on the [2:42 Inaudible] his son worked there with [2:45 Inaudible] and I would get off and go in there and say “Jay, I got some corn.” And he was about, Jay was about, fourteen, fifteen. Maybe a little older or a little less. But he’s a big boy. He’d come off and take the meal, the shack off the horse with the corn in it. And he’d put in that [3:00 Inaudible] and make meal --- Momma said “Meal here, grits here.” --- then the [3:04 Inaudible] when he gone, he would take a big scoop out of our stuff and put it in that barrel, he gon’ sell that. And then he’d tie it back up and throw it back across the horse. And I go and catch the horse like this, and he’d take my feet, and throw me on ‘cross the horse. [Laughter] He was good, he was white, but he’d mingle with the Black people. And I would come on back, Momma said, “Stay on that side of the road and don’t run that horse to death.” [Laughter] I was making [3:35-3:40 Inaudible] and I’d come back home so we’d all just, like ---

	D:	So, you had two things. You had grits on there ---



	T:	Grits and meal. Grits on this side. But it was string tied between the sacks so it would be separated. So Momma would buy alotta chickens come down to Union Street and they had them little bitties in a little cage and she would say, “Give me five of them bitties.” Just like that. Call [4:04-4:05 Inaudible] We had a lot of chickens. And she used to sell eggs also, I remember we had a lot of chickens in





our --- I found a hen there and the guy she would sell the eggs to was named Underwood. He was on the corner where, I don’t know what name that street, but you go down Newberry Road and then you get to the blinking light, you turn left, go to Archer, turn right and come ‘round to Alachua Road, you know?

	D:	Is that Highway 170? T:	What was that?

	D:	Road 170?



	T:	I don’t know the numbers of the road. But you go down past --- H:	That’s 170

	T:	That’s 170? It’s the light that you make a left and you go and make a right and come by our place. So, I found a hen there, and I don’t know how many eggs, this is about ten or fifteen eggs. So I got them up and went and sold ‘em. And I sold ‘em to the same store my Momma --- [Laughter] and the same day was on a Wednesday, I’ll never forget it. My Momma came by there to sell some eggs, I don’t know what [5:11 Inaudible]. ”I don’t need no eggs, ya boy done sold me all I want.” [Laughter] So they came back. And we talking about a time, it was a time [Laughter]

	D:	I can’t imagine. And now wasn’t the school on that same road? T:	Yeah, the school got burnt up.

	D:	Yeah, the school got burned down. T:	Yeah, the Red School.





	D:	That’s right.



	T:	It got burned down.



	D:	Did you attend that school?



	T:	I think I went there ‘bout a little over a year, maybe two years and it was the small one that got burned down. But my brother went there and my sister went there ---

	D:	I see.



	T:	But they all deceased, you know? D:	Yes

	T:	And there’s a lot of people [5:46 Inaudible], well you probably heard of the [5:48 Inaudible], they went there too. And a lot of people went there --- McCray’s, they

---



	D:	The McCray’s, uh-huh, how about the Camp’s? T:	The Camp’s? I think. You know them?

	D:	Oh yeah.



	T:	yeah, I was raised with them. They lived in the country though, maybe a mile down. I knew the Camp’s, all of ‘em. But I think, it’s a few of ‘em, but they younger people, much younger than I am.

	D:	How about the Stoke’s?



	T:	The Stoke’s? Yeah, Henry Stoke.





	D:	Yes!



	T:	We used to call him Jay Bird! D:	That’s right! [Laughter]

	T:	[6:17 Inaudible] But we used to call him Jay Bird. Yeah, so I knew all them people, you know? Bernie Wilson?

	D:	Uh-huh.



	T:	Yeah, Bernie Wilson and Sylvester --- we used to call him Cousin Ves ---



Welch.



	D:	Yes, brother Welch.



	T:	That was my mother’s cousin.



	D:	There were a lot of Welch’s out there.



	T:	My mother was a Welch before she got married. I knew all those people. Some of them were older I am--- Chris Welch and one his boys was named Otis and one was named Arthur. And they had another Welch they called Moe Welch! He was a minister ---

	D:	He was the reverend, mhmm.



	T:	And he had a boy named TJ and one named Andrew. And he had two boys. I knew all them people.

	D:	So you knew them well. You knew the families out there very well. I spent a lot of time with the Ross families too.





T:  [7:15 Inaudible] But I knew them. I think they only had one sister, Patty May. And they had about, let’s see, Jr., we used to call him Teddy, Buster, I think they had five boys, and Lattis and Ede. I think its five boys.

D:   Lattis was one that I spent a lot of time with.



T:   Lattis? I think he’s the last one that passed, to my understanding.



	D:	Well goodness! You gave us a good overview of the community and the people in the community during your childhood. And we appreciate that very very much. Thank you. What was some of the crops, I know you mentioned the corn all ready, but what were some of the other crops that were growing out there?

	T:	Well, we grew --- well I say we but my momma married again a stepfather --- and she two children for my stepfather. Hazel [8:13 Inaudible]

	D:	Oh, I know Hazel!



	T:	You know Hazel? That’s my sister. And I had another sister named [8:11 Inaudible] but she lived -- where’d she live? – down there where your sister used to live. It’s Melbourne. My sister lived in Melbourne. I ain’t gon’ tell ya everything [Laughter]

	D:	Well we can’t do it all in one hour [Laughter]



	T:	Well, what I was thinking was peanuts and watermelons. I remember once we had eighty acres of watermelon – I mean eighty acres of peanuts. And we had over one hundred hays of hog. And they had a hole, we used to call it a mud hole. We had a windmill. [9:03 – 9:07 Inaudible] We had five barrels because we





had the horses and the cows. During that time, cows could go in the woods. They would burn the woods off, and maybe two or three weeks that grass would be coming up, and we had about, I guess sixteen to seventeen heads of cows. That was a lot of cows –

	D:	Yes it was.



	T:	We used to come out there – we had five barrels. We could loosed that thing – I was too small to do it but my brother could do it – loosen that lever and that thing would come out from that windmill and that windmill start pumping water. I remember when it get hot, I would get in one of those barrels buck naked! [Laughter] There was no air conditioning! My momma came out one day and sees that, I saw her so I went down in the water and she was calling me and I wasn’t saying nothing. [Laughter] I was holding my nose. She used to call me Tip. Tip! [10:12 – 10:20 Inaudible] But that was the worst time I ever had, she put the whooping on me [Laughter]. She said, “You could’ve got drown in there.” Which I could have, but you know at that age you didn’t think about that. No dangers, it was all good times and had a lot of fun.

	M:	How big was the property you were farming on?



	T:	We had one hundred and sixty acres of land. My sister lives out there now and they have – I have two sisters – she’s got two boys. One of them just retired from the railroad and one’s a nurse at Shands. But after my mother passed, they had deeds for our land. My younger sisters, they got twenty acres a piece. Cause they daddy was my stepdaddy. My mother had three children from my daddy and





that was our stepfather, so he gave us – he divided up forty between three of us so that was thirteen of something acres a piece. So I thought that was good of him to do that. I didn’t think about it at that time, but you know? Eighty acres of land was a lot of land back in those days.

	M:	How did that land come into your family?



	T:	Well I don’t know how it came here before my time. But my father’s land, I don’t know too much about that because my father died when I was three. My mother three children from my daddy – Edel, Jesse May, and myself. And my father died, his mother had already passed, and then he had a sister and two brothers. And they wind up selling their land because my daughter tried to buy some of the land from them. But they were living in Miami and we was in the country, so you know how that is. They’s city people and we country people. We are supposed to know what’s going on. And anyways, when my daughter tried to buy some of the land, my aunt wouldn’t sell to her. So my uncle, I think he got a hundred and seven or eight, and he died [13:04 – 13:09 Inaudible]. My cousin came to his funeral and by them coming to the funeral, they said, “You all have some more cousins up here.” But we didn’t know them and they didn’t know us. And we didn’t go to the funeral because he didn’t like my mother. And so she said, “We ain’t going to this funeral.” He was kinda nasty I would say. Because my mother told me something I never will forget. My daddy died, so his wife liked my mother and she was trying to bring some milk down to our house, and he made her pour the milk out. So, to make a long story short, when we got the [13:54 Inaudible] they came to his funeral, you know? So we didn’t go, but before that happened,





my brother used to come over here and he didn’t have no transportation. My brother used to carry him home [14:05 Inaudible]. My brother was five years older than I was. And one day my brother wasn’t there and he wanted to go home. He asked me – he used to call my Baby – “Baby!” I had never liked him but maybe I shouldn’t say this. So, he said, “I gotta go home.” “Then go ahead home.” And then he said,” I’m your uncle.” I said, “Yeah, I’m not gon’ take you home.” And he said, “Then why you won’t take me? Your brother take me.” And I said, “I’m gonna tell you something, I didn’t want to tell you this, but I did not know how to do it. Your wife tried to give me momma milk and you made her pour it out. I never liked you for that.” So it must’ve been true cause he bust down and started crying. And some more drivers [15:03 Inaudible] said, “You shouldn’t have said that.” I said, “You don’t have nothing to do with that.” Just like that cause because they wasn’t related.

	D:	What was his name?



	T:	Gilbert Clark. That was my father’s oldest brother but they had different daddies.



He was a Clark, my daddy was a Turner. So anything else?



	M:	Well, sure. You mentioned the one school house you went to. Where did you go to school after that?

	T:	Well, I didn’t go after that. I didn’t get no higher than eighth grade. Cause I started staying over her in [19]45 and I started working.

	D:	How old were you in 1945? T:	I was about seventeen.





	D:	About seventeen years old. So you came to Gainesville and got yourself a job, so to speak. And you were a man and had to take care of yourself.

	T:	Yeah, came over to work to make some money so I could buy school clothes. My stepfather during that time he had a saw that he used to cut wood and he had one of his eyes knocked out and he came to the [16:28 Inaudible] and he started getting a check and said, “I ain’t gonna farm no more.” So I [16:33 – 16:36 Inaudible] after I came here and I started working with the cafeteria. I had a good boss, a lady. Whatchu call them? A dietician. And she was real good to me and taught me a lot because –

	D:	What was the name of the cafeteria?



	T:	University Cafeteria at the University of Florida.



	D:	And what building did you work in cause they got so many buildings out there?



T:  Well, there wasn’t no numbers. It was just the cafeteria at that time. It’s where they served all the food at. But now they have so many different branches that they serve at. And she was my boss –

D:   What was her name?



	T:	Mrs. Sword. And she used to call me Lil Turner! “Lil Turner, go get me my coffee. He knows how I like it.” And I would go and fix up her coffee. And she said, “Sit down.” And I said, “I got to go to work.” And she said, “I’m your boss you do what I say to do.” I’d stay in there with her sometimes for an hour, hour and a half. She had a big leg! I guess y’all don’t want to know that now do you.





	D:	Yes, I do. Was it health related?



	T:	Her health! I called her swole leg but she had to wrap this wrap around it. And she said, “I want you to wrap my leg but don’t you stick me!” cause she had this pin. [Laughter]. And I was kinda scared. She said, “Pull it tight!” And I would wrap it like that and wrap kit all way down to here. And I would stay in there with her sometimes for two or three hours. And they had some more guys working there and they tried to get me fired. They said, “He don’t do nothing! He stay in there with Mrs. Sword all day.” And the butcher, she always used to send me to him, his name was Walter Matthews. She said to me, “Tell Walter to send me one steak and some ground meat and two pork chops.” And I would go in there and get them and come back to her. So the guys were talking about me saying that I didn’t do nothing and I wasn’t where I was supposed to be. But they wasn’t my boss. He [Walter] told them, “If she hear you talking about him, she gon’ fire you.” And come to find out that one of them is my cousin but he didn’t know me but he knew my brother. And his name was Ferman Welch in Alachua. You knew Ferman?

	D:	Yes I did!



	T:	That was my cousin, but I didn’t know him. My brother knew him. So I come to find out, he said, “Hey cousin!” I said, “I’m not kin to you.” I told him just like that. And then we started talking and then my brother came and said, “Yeah, that’s your cousin.” I was like, “He’s the one trying to get me fired!” [Laughter].





	D:	Ferman was a character. He and his wife too. She was a wonderful musician. She played for several churches over in Alachua and around. I knew both of them and spent time in their home.

	T:	Well his wife was in Gainesville. She was a Gills. I think those people raised her.



I learned that later on. I didn’t know too much about them at first.



	D:	But he passed.



	T:	We went to both of their funerals.



	D:	Last time I saw her, they were giving her a birthday party in Gainesville. This was a few years back. But I knew Mr. Ferman. He was a riot. [Laughter]. He was telling us the story about how he was so old he couldn’t get in the boat to go fishing so they would get him up there to the boat and take his front legs and his back and set him down in the boat so he could go fishing with the boys. He loved to go fishing.

	T:	I don’t go fishing. I’m scared of water. I can’t swim. I’ll buy ‘em but I ain’t gonna go get ‘em. [Laughter]. The boys can go ahead on, I ain’t getting in no water. So anything else?

	D:	Oh, yes. We want to change a little bit and talk about some of the things in the Gainesville area. I wanted to make sure we talked a little bit about Fifth Avenue because you know the streets well and some of the activities that were going on on Fifth Avenue.





	T:	When I came here, I started working. On my off day, I would ride with George Walker. He drove cab. I would help him with the bags and he would give me maybe a dollar or two dollars. But that was pretty good after I get off from work. And I started riding with him. We would go different places. Where the cab stand is now, that was the movies. That was the Theatre. They built the theater down across the railroad tracks. But right in front of the cab stand was Mr. Franklin. To your left there was a house there, what was the name again? I can’t think of her mother’s name. I think she was a Hone. But she had some children named Brenden and one named Caroline and one named Beverly. But I have forgotten her name and her husband’s name. She had a boy named Henry and another boy but I have forgotten his name but he left and went away and I don’t know what happened to him. Tim! That was his name. And next door to her was Marie. Marie had a little party house and you could buy drinks or whatever. And where Duck and Brothers is now, that was a barbershop, Reverend Walker.

And right close to him was a shoeshine stand there, Supreme ran the shoeshine stand. And across the street Mr. Hans had a grocery store and Fischer had a fish market place. And next door to him was Plummer Barbershop. And next to him Maggie and Joe. And next door to Joe –

	D:	What did Maggie and Joe have? What was there business?



	T:	He had a little restaurant. And there was a little [23:51 Inaudible] where they sell beer and stuff. And next door to him was Reverend Kato.

	D:	Oh yes, I have heard a lot about Reverend Kato.





	T:	And next door to Reverend Kato was Gilbert’s shoeshine stand. And next door to him coming south it was the Jacksons and they had four or five little houses down an alley. They would rent the rooms to different people. And next door was Lamar Jackson. He had a two story building and Ellie Mccanon and Pap. Pap had a place where he made clothes.

	D:	Now what was Pap’s name because I’ve heard his name as Pap?



	T:	Pap Jordan. He got a wife name Ellen Jordan.



	D:	I didn’t know what his name was but I’ve heard Pap so many times.



	T:	But that’s all I knew him as, Pap Jordan. His father was a minister. But I didn’t know his father. And right on down from him, there was a big pool room here. And next to that pool room, Wigwan had chicken running around the park. [Laughter]. [25:08 – 25:20 Inaudible]. Down the Wigwan, he had a nice little jip where you’d dance. And Fletcher had the pool room next door. But first, Wigwan had the pool room.

	D:	So Wigwan had the pool room first. T:	And then Fletcher bought it from him.

	D:	Fletcher is still down there. You’re talking about Fletcher – T:	Fletcher Green! His building is still there.

	D:	But Aaron runs it now.



	T:	His son runs it. And then Mr. William before we used to call him Bodega Jack, his mother stayed in there. Next door to them coming on down towards 6th street.





Where Fletcher is, that was Mildred and Bodega Jack’s mother’s place. [26:23 – 26:27 Inaudible] [Laughter]. And on the corner of 6th Street and 5th Avenue, that was Fletcher’s parent’s house was right there.

D:   6th Street and what?



	T:	On the very corner of 6th Street and 5th Avenue right in front of that barber shop. And where that barbershop, on the other side, there was a liquor store. It didn’t last too long. And where Santa Fe is, that was the train station. And right down past the train station, Zeke had a big juke there, Zeke Hogs.

	D:	Zeke had, what was that?



	T:	It was a juke. It could buy drinks, [27:13 Inaudible]. [Laughter].



	D:	Yeah, yeah, yeah, I’m with you. But this is important to know. Now was Mama



	Loe’s there at that time? T:	Mama Loe’s on 6th Street! D:	She was on 6th Street.

	T:	Down there almost to the police station. She was, as you’re coming towards 8th Avenue, she was on the left hand side. She was next to the church.

	D:	And next door to Mama Loe’s what was his name?



	T:	I don’t know, but he was a big ol’ man, about 400 pounds! I remember him, but I don’t remember his name. He always be sitting on that porch.





	D:	His name will come to me. Because he used to tell us always to go to Mama Loe’s and eat and we would go there.

	T:	So you remember Mama Loe’s? Her husband was named Curtis. D:	Oh yeah, I knew him too. And he always had those big cars --

	T:	Nice cars.



	D:	Always a fine car.



	T:	Well, when I got to be a grown man I was driving cabs. Mama Loe would stay up, do you know where [28:22 Inaudible] is?

	D:	I know the area.



	T:	But they first stayed in [28:25 Inaudible]. But she bought a place out there where



Sam is now.



	D:	They told me she had a big swimming pool out there! [Laughter]



	T:	Big? I rode the guy that dig the swimming pool. I rode him. Anyway, she couldn’t, I don’t know could she drive, but she never did drive. I used to ride her when I was driving cab. And she called me and said, everyone calls me Nat, “Nat, come on Curtis is in the house though.” And he had a discharge. So I went and picked her up and we got to the VA and picked Curtis up, Curtis was dead.

	D:	Oh my. I knew him.





T:  I knew him too! I wouldn’t go to VA for a long time, I’ll tell you. I mean, I’m a veteran, but I wouldn’t go to the VA. I said, “No, they killing them out there.” [Laughter]. So I took him back. My brother wouldn’t go to the VA.

	D:	Well, let me ask you this one other question in regards to Mama Loe’s and these different businesses. We had some of the most active musicians to come to those areas. You had B.B. King –

	T:	But, excuse me, B.B. King was out here on 7th Avenue. And Ray Charles.



	D:	Ray Charles! You had Amos. Uh, the guy that played on T.V. You had a lot of them and she had all those posters and pictures along the way –

	T:	And the building is still there. D:	Yeah. It is?

	T:	The building is still there, right on the corner. What’s the name of the, what was the name of that building?

	U:	What building?



	T:	On the corner of Southeast 7th Avenue and 9th Street. They’ve done some remodeling there. This lady, Mrs. Fowler. She was remodeling she lived in like an estate. I been in that building a many a time, I couldn’t [30:23 Inaudible] [Laughter] –

	D:	You talking about the Cotton Club? T:	Huh?





	D:	You talking about where the Cotton Club is? T:	The Cotton Club! Yes, yes.

	D:	It is opening there again.



	T:	They have time to get it under some kind of construction. D:	That’s exactly true. Yeah, Yeah.

	T:	I’ve been there a lot of time.



	D:	We’ve interviewed several people who used to go there and dance and have fun. [Laughter].

	T:	Well, I remember the first time I saw Ray Charles, he was there. He was blind.



	He used to be [30:49 Inaudible] and be doing like this all the time. – D:	I’ve seen him three or four times. He’d be just – [Laughter]

	T:	And I used to watch him. I said, “I believe he can see.” [Laughter]. [31:00 – 31:02 Inaudible] but he was a lot of fun to watch.

	D:	And they’d bring in a lot of people, like the early gospel singers too. They all came out into this area. So it was wonderful.

	T:	Those were the good days.



	D:	Roberto Flat came here. Several of them.



	T:	It was a lot of good bands – B.B. King, he came here. He was a good time. I don’t know who he married but he had a child –





	D:	He got a child here, that’s right. Right here in Gainesville. [Laughter] All those words got out quick.

	T:	And they had 2nd Street. You know 2nd Street? But I didn’t go ‘round 2nd Street in



	Portos because Portos was kinda rough – D:	That’s what I heard.

	T:	And I didn’t go [31:49 Inaudible] in Portos. D:	But they had a couple of juke joints.

	T:	One they called The Bucket of Blood! [Laughter]



	D:	We heard that when we came here and my husband said, “We don’t go down that side of town.”

	T:	I had cousins in Provo but I would never go over there. Henry, The Lees.



Charlie, Frank Lee, Henry Lee, Russell Lee, and one of them my son ride now. I think she’s the same age I am, I think. But Portos is a place I didn’t mess around with. And I used to like to shoot pool – they had a pool room. And I said, “I ain’t going over there to play no pool.” [Laughter].

	D:	And they told us to not be over there at night when we first moved to Gainesville.



	T:	It wasn’t a nice place to go. I shoot pool now but I go out to the Senior Citizen Building. Out here by the patrol station.

	D:	It’s very nice out there.



	T:	Me and my wife go out two or three times a week sometimes –





	D:	Oh, okay! A lot of activities out there.



	T:	She go and talk with different people. It’s something to get out of the house. It’s a lot of fun. You meet a lot of nice people out there.

	D:	That’s right. Now, we used to go over there to Shady Grove – T:	To go to church?

	D:	Yes, and that was Reverend Rawlins. T:	That was next to the Foxes, wasn’t it?

	D:	That’s right, next to the Foxes – the Foxes Nursery. And we used to go there and talk to the people in there. Once we understood where to go in Portos, we would go there.

	T:	Because you’re safe! Because [33:20 – 30:22 Inaudible] right down past that church there. And he had a daughter Margaret Mills and I forgot his son’s but he was much younger than I was. But I remember Margaret.

	D:	But once we understood Portos, we would be in and out there. But we knew what time to go. And Reverend Rawlins, you know, was a farmer. I don’t know if you knew that. But he had about two hundred acres of watermelon and he would take us out to the fields and my little kids were small. He would bust a watermelon and have them sit out there and eat it and make me a picture of it – Seeing these kids eating watermelon in the field. And they were just nice people to us. If we hadn’t had those kind of folk when we came to Gainesville, we wouldn’t have stayed.





	T:	We used to have a lot of hogs –



	D:	He had hogs too. He had probably had two or three hundred hogs out there. He had a huge farm out there.

	T:	We used to bust [34:12 Inaudible] and just get the heart out it. [34:15 – 34:20 Inaudible]. We had to pick that [34:22 Inaudible] [Laughter].

	D:	Then we take the rind and they would make pickle out of it. Have you ever had watermelon pickle?

	T:	I had it but my mother never – my mother, I think it was, she would can peas, corn. And we had a lot peach trees. I hate peaches. Oh Lord! Peaches and pears and blackberries. You know what a blackberry look like, not a blueberry, we call ‘em blackberries.

	D:	The blackberries have the little small seeds.



	T:	They small but they have a little sticker – that thing will stick ya. And used to make something called doobie –

	D:	Oh yeah, I know what doobie is [Laughter].



	T:	There was a white couple living, well I say next door, about from here to Waldo Road and his name was Jay and me and him get on the same horse. Who get on him first and the other get behind and I’d wrap my arms around him we’d go picking. And my mom said, “Be careful outside that fence. Them snakes like them blackberries too.” And she used to yell, “Go wash your hands.” And we’d wash our hands in that big barrel of water and dry them on us like this. [Pretends





to dry hands on self] [Laughter]. We didn’t have no towel. My mama finished doobie and we’d eat blackberry doobie. And to tell you I was grown driving cab and there was Billy Holiday on Newberry Road and 75th Street. And this guy was blind also but you would think he could see. Got a call down, Holiday Inn. I forgot the room number, it was one forty something. Anyway, I went to the desk and I said, “I’m from Safety Cab and I got to pick up from the number of the room.” And she said, “Okay, I’ll call him.” And she called him, and I said, “Can I cup of that coffee?” She said, “Go ahead, help yourself.” And there was a white guy in there, big ol’ guy, he kept watching me! I said, “Why you looking at me?” I kept moving round – everywhere I go, he would be there! So he knew I had some [36:40 Inaudible]. So he decide to call me Tit. I looked around, I said, “What you call me?” He said, “Tit.” And I looked around, and I said, “Jay!” Well, he was much bigger now. And he grabbed me and held me up in the air, and the lady behind the counter, she come running! She thought we were fighting! [Laughter]. She came around the counter and he said, “Ma’am there is nothing to be alarmed. Me and him are raised together.” But if I knew, if I seen his hand, I would know him. But I couldn’t, that’s why I was trying to get around to see him.

And my customer came out there I had to, “Drop me I got to go.” But I was glad to see him! But the last time I saw him, me and him were about the same size, but he was much younger than I was. I enjoyed seeing Jay. He had the tide from some parts of Illinois. He told this lady, “We was integrated way before integration.” [37:54 – 37:57 Inaudible]. He was just like a brother to me because





we was eating at the same table all the time – My mother feed him, I go to his house the same meal.

	D:	I got to ask you about one other family, the Buchanan’s.



	T:	The Buchanan’s? D:	Yes.

	T:	[Inaudible 38:10-38:14] they live right down off the police station. [Inaudible 38:16 – 38:20] I think she’s ninety …

	D:	I don’t know what her age is, but I haven’t seen her in about two or three years. T:	I think she told me she’d be ninety-five. That’s my cousin.

	D:	That’s the lady I wanted to put on my list of people to interview, but I haven’t gotten there yet.

	T:	Well, Ellen is my mother’s cousin. He used to be a tailor and where there pool room is, where they sell BBQ. That was his shop for making clothes. I’m close kin to him.

	D:	Yeah, so you’re close kin to him and the other Buchanan’s out there in the



Jonesville area.



	T:	We all went to the same church – D:	Which church did you attend?

	T:	Pleasant Plan. My sister still lives down the street from Pleasant Plan now,



Hazel.





	D:	We were just out there the other day. They put a historic marker out there – T:	But the road is so bad, you got to come in from the back.

D:   That’s what we did, we came in from the back. Route 66, you don’t get on it. The



pastor said, “Don’t put yourself on that.” So we came in the back way.



T:   That’s the way we go. I go to Prairie Road, come in behind the church – D:   That’s 170 and we cut off and come through the back.

T:   Well, a long time ago, they kept that road cut and kept it grated but they don’t do a good job on it now.

D:  When I was doing a study out there, it was in good shape. And that was about 204, 205, and 206 and it was in fairly good shape. But nuh-uh, I wouldn’t go it now.

T:   So Elle and all those are my people.



	D:	Oh okay, so are you related Joel Buchanan? T:	Who?

D:   Joel.



	T:	Joel died, didn’t he? D:	Yes.

T:  He was a working in Florida, he [40:12 Inaudible]. He’s been dead for five or six years, hasn’t he?





	D:	Oh, probably about four years. So you knew his father and the mother and all of ‘em.

	T:	Joel?



	D:	Yeah.



	T:	Joel’s father was named Joe –



	D:	That’s right, because he buried out in Pleasant Plan.



	T:	His mother, I’ve forgotten her name, but I knew her. She used to go to William Temple Church. I knew his mother. He had another brother, a matter of fact, he’s got a sister living now.

	D:	That’s right. She lives in the home house. She’s over there on 6th Street.



T:  Joel’s brother used to be the best checker player in Gainesville. And Joel’s brother just died here about maybe a year ago. What’s his name? Chester Buchanan.

D:   Yeah, I recall when that happened.



	T:	[41:08 Inaudible] two girls, Ellen and Mary. I remember all them people. [Laughter].

D:  You really do. You got a strong remembrance of your community. Absolutely. T:   And right where Jonesville Mall is, you know where that is?

D:   Yes, sir. I know.





	T:	That’s a little city there now. It’s nice. It’s not country no more. It’s like I was telling him, when he first came in. See when we was out there, the highway, just two cars could go on. But now they got sidewalk from Gainesville to Jonesville. You can ride a bike on the sidewalk.

	D:	That’s exactly true. Did hear any stories about the Newberry – T:	Who?

	D:	Did you hear any stories about the Newberry Six? The lynchings –



	T:	I don’t know nothing about it, but my mother told us about it. I don’t know anything about it. She knew about it. I knew where it was [42:04 Inaudible] with some big tree. And when we come down on that wagon [42:11 Inaudible] – see back in those days, people talked about hands! You ever heard that?

	D:	Yeah [Laughter] I know you’re talking about.



	T:	When we – I say we – when they killed hogs, my mother had her sister stay in Neebo because Louis Hayes. You knew her? She got two daughters now, one named Carly and Katie May. You know them?

	D:	I don’t know them personally, but Louis Hayes –



	T:	Well, one of them married Mr. Jones. When we – well I say we – my parents, when they killed hogs, they would bring my mother some meat. We used to carry three or four hogs, and you know how they hang a hog up?

	D:	Yes, I know.





	T:	Mama said, “You take [43:00 – 43:05 Inaudible].” Because you had to go by a church. [Laughter]. [43:13 – 43:16 Inaudible] for the sun to go down before they send you up there. And we had a horse named Peanut [Laughter]. Peanut could run – and would run! Every time I go by the church, he go to cutting up, like he see something. Then I’m scared and he scared. And, this is the God-laden truth, I tell my wife, you feel something wrong. You weren’t raised in the country, were you?

	D:	Yes, we have a farm that was out in the country. I lived in town, but it didn’t matter because we would be out to the farm just about every other day.

	T:	Right, when Peanut [43:49 – 43:51 Inaudible]. I couldn’t move because I’m on him but my hair would stand up on my head. That’s the God-laden truth. And it feel like coming into a warm spot and I’d turn him loose. I said, “Lord! I hope I can stay on!” [Laughter].

	D:	Yes! I know some of those stories.



	T:	That was the truth! And look, by the time I go to drop that off and get back to the church, it’d be dark. And people would come to the house [44:20 Inaudible]. I said, “Mama, why’d they have to come here talking like that.” They knew we scared –

	D:	Mhmm, they were frightened.



	T:	We had an outdoor toilet. And every night my sister got to go to the – [Laughter]. “Come on go with me!” She scared, I get the dog – we had a dog named Kai – “Come on Kai.” [Laughter]. And then we get out and sometimes he used to





[Mimics dog bark] like he see something! [Laughter]. It was something else. And every night it was too!

	D:	Get the pot and give it to her! [Laughter]



	T:	She come and look at me, I said, “I ain’t going out there!” [Laughter]. Well, all those days, well you know, I guess – because there wasn’t indoor toilet at that time. We didn’t have no [45:12 Inaudible]. I got a minute pop when I didn’t clean the lampshade right and you’re light looking like zebra. [Laughter]

	D:	Well, I do want to say one other thing in regards to the lynch hammock, several lynchings were done there. Not just those six that we know about. I know of two that happened in 1902 in September. And these were boys that went out in the field, and they claimed that those boys ate a watermelon in a white man’s field and they killed those two young boys. One was ten and the other one, I believe, was twelve. And they lynched them right there at lynch hammock. And then there were some other lynchings that I know about, that I don’t have more details on. But yeah, several people were lynched in that location.

	T:	My mother told me, but she said, “You ain’t got nothing to do with.” Because I guess they was afraid at that time, you know, because it wasn’t integration. And she said, “Just keep your mouth closed. You didn’t hear or see anything.” But I heard of the lynchings. We used to have to come by there at night. We would turn that way and go, “No, Johnny!” [Laughter]. Yeah, I heard it but, you know, I wasn’t big enough. My mother said she was young but never did get involved with that, you know?





	D:	No, I understand. I hear you well. Now, tell us some of the stories about the people you picked up, you know, cab people that you picked up. Did you have any people that you picked up every day? Or every other day?

	T:	Yeah, I had people that I would ride and they would pay me when they get paid.



But you can’t do that today –



	D:	No, I understand. But you had regular people?



	T:	I had regular people I would ride and they would pay me when they get paid.

	D:	Yeah, at the end of the week or at the end of the month, or however that worked. T:	Some people would pay you now, some people won’t pay ya. So you have to,



kinda, trust them and feel them out. Like a person be lying. It’s hard to tell a person down, and they been riding with you and they got children. It’s hard to tell them, “No, I can’t ride you know more.” And they reckon, they say, “I’ll pay you.” We discussed that between ourselves because I know during that time, when you working and got a family, you wasn’t making a lot of money at that time. You had make do with what you had. And because I’m living pretty good, I have to try to help you, because someone had to help me. That’s the way I done it. I told my wife, about not too long ago, I saw a girl and she had two boys. She lived on Sugar Hill Apartment. Her name – I aint gon’ tell her name is.

	D:	That’s alright, I know where Sugar Hill is.



	T:	But, she was getting paid every fourteen days I believe it was. She worked behind this [48:08 Inaudible] in North Florida. And she had two boys – she wasn’t





married to this guy. But she said that he’d rather go to jail than pay child support. And just before Christmas and she started sniffling. She started crying. I said, “Come here you.” Just like that, “You sick?” [woman] “No, I’m not sick.” They called me Nat. She said, “Nat, I’m just thinking. I got two boys.” And I had put my stuff on layaway for him and he supposed to pay her that Friday. But he went to jail, he wouldn’t her. So she called the people, and they picked him up. And she said, “I just don’t the money to pay you and get my children layaway.” I said, “Look, I don’t do this too much. But I got children and I know the feeling. You can just owe me for this two weeks and then you get paid the next two weeks. Now you’ll be able to pay that and this?” She said, “I’ll be able to do.” I said, “Just keep that and get your children layaway out.” And every time the see me, they grab me and hug me.

	D:	And that was the community, that you did that. My grandfather ran a store and he had to do that so many times. When people didn’t have a quarter and papa said, “We will be blessed.” Because you are helping the people your community.

	T:	It’s for a good cause.



	D:	That’s exactly right. And one lady was a washwoman and she had nothing, zero. And she had family members that were alcohol. And papa never charged her for anything. She took out of that store, and if I was there, “Anything Mrs. Lucy want, Mrs. Lucy get.” And so I knew how to handle Mrs. Lucy and she was always so appreciative. So you find people like that.

	T:	Well when you help a person, they come back to you.





	D:	Yeah, it comes back. That’s what papa said always. He said, “Now look, I got me a new Desota sitting out here in the yard and I wouldn’t have this Desota if I hadn’t been nice to people in my community. That’s right. That’s exactly what he said. Papa sitting in that big Desota going down the highway. [Laughter]

	T:	Well listen, I help a lot of people. But I say now, they were helping me.



	D:	Yes, that’s exactly right. Yeah, because they would be bringing you vegetables and they would bring us stuff to mama and papa that they didn’t even need, for payment. Sweet potatoes when their crops came in, you know? “We owe you this” and they would bring that and give it to them and that was it.

	T:	I drove cab for forty-five years, never been robbed. Yeah but I had [51:03 Inaudible] [Laughter] My sister, she’s scared of guns. She said, “You don’t need that.” I said, “I’d rather go to 39th than Duffin. If I see you ain’t doing right, I’m gonna put some in you.” Because what can I do if he grab me a big as he is? I weigh a hundred and forty-five pounds. I’ll shoot you in a minute. I left here one morning. I always go out and crank my car and come back in. I had my gun. So I went out – it was cold – cranked my car and let it be warmed up and I’d come back and get ready. So I went back to my car – we had hedges! I took them hedges down. So a guy cussed out and I said, “Don’t you come in this yard!” He said, “I just want to ask you which way to the VA.” I said, “This way!” Like that. [Mimic punch] [Laughter] But he probably gon’ grab me. He small. I can handle him. I threw that 38 on him. [Mimic punch] Sounded like he was tap dancing. [Laughter].





	D:	Let me ask another question of you. Also, where did you get your repair work done on your cars and who serviced you with your gas and so forth?

	T:	Well, I bought my own gas but I went to, you know 5th avenue and 13th street? D:	Mhmm.

	T:	There used to be a Tubby Filling station. D:	Oh yes, ok, I heard about that.

	T:	Well, before Tubby bought that, my uncle owned that, Charlie Hearst. Right there on the corner of 5th and 13th. It’s some kind of little restaurant there now, isn’t it?

	M:	I think so. That purple building, right?



	T:	They’d be sitting out under the tents eating there. But my uncle owned that, Charlie Hearst. That was Tommy Hearst’s brother. Tommy Hearst worked at the bank.

	D:	Well, the Hearst’s were big names out there in Jonesville too.



	T:	Well, they’re from Jonesville! Hearst, Uncle Han, Hannibal Hearst! Yeah! That was momma’s uncle.

	D:	Oh ok, they’ve got some big tombstones still out there.



	T:	Me and Uncle Han – well, I called him Uncle Han. He would pull our pumps. And I used a quarter, he had a pipe and this pipe was split. And he had somewhere he could drive it down and I’d sit there on something and knock the [53:31





Inaudible] with a hammer. Bam! Bam! Bam! Bam! Like that. And he would give you a quarter. You’d think you had something. But all those were my people.

They were right off from the Dudley’s.



	D:	That’s right. Right next to them up that lane.



	T:	He had a pipe and it had a split and he had a big thing and he would pick that thing up and drive it down. I guess that must have did it to come up in that pipe that he’d knock it down. Sometime he would say, “I smell the water.” I said, “You don’t smell no water.” [Laughter]

	D:	Did they do witching out there? T:	Did who?

	D:	The term ‘witching’ to find water. You know what that is?



	T:	Yeah, he could see water to him. I don’t know what name the thing he was but I used to be out there with him.

	D:	That was a culture thing. They would go in that area and they could look and they have two pieces of pipe and if that pipe went round, that meant there was water there. And they used to do that. They would call on these men to come and do that.

	T:	Well, I didn’t know nothing about it. I was just caring for that quarter. [Laughter] D:	But that was part of what they were doing.





	T:	Yeah, they probably was but see I was too young to know that back then. It was Tommy Hearst, Johnny Hearst, there was a lot of them – Uncle Han, Hannibal Hearst. His wife was named Laura Hearst.

	D:	These names really are coming back because we did the research on the families that worked on the Dudley farm.

	T:	Well, some of Henry McCray’s people worked on there. But I’ve forgotten their names. And one of them is a guy that used to fix all his tractors, Dudley’s tractors. But that was a long time and I was small then. But he mad at some of the McCray’s family. I don’t know what it was but he mad at them. Dan Stoke’s daughter.

	D:	Well, I know about Dan. I didn’t know him, but I have read his name many times in the literature.

	T:	I remember Dan Stokes. I knew a lot about Dan. I told my wife some stuff about



Dan. I aint gon’ tell you about it.



	D:	Well, let me ask you to, di you wear a uniform or anything to identify you as a cab driver?

	T:	No, you didn’t have to wear a uniform.



	D:	No special hat or anything? And you didn’t have to have a meter in your vehicle? T:	We had a meter.

	D:	What kind of cars did you drive? T:	I always bought Chryslers.





	D:	So you like a big car, a heavy car?



	T:	I wanted a car that could hold six people in. Because when it’s game time, if there are six people that come flying in on a plane, all six of those people want to go together. And then the whole [56:34 Inaudible] and pay for them. But, Black people don’t do that. I aint gon’ hold my wife and pay for her too. Well, they wouldn’t. I’m telling the truth! But white people would hold their wife and – I’ve had people try to take me to the game with them. I said, “Nah, I can’t go.” Because I work for myself and but I tell them, “They’ll fire me.” I didn’t want to go to the game, I wanted to work.

	D:	Did you ever have any conflicts, any business that was not good, that you would like to share? Any type of other conflicts other than robbery?

	T:	No, I never had nothing. I always get along with people. Because if you didn’t have the money, we would work it. I said, “Give me your social security card.” [Laughter]. I don’t say give me your ring because that might not be nothing. I said, “Give me your social security card. I’m gonna lock it right here in this glove compartment. Now, if you don’t pay me, I got it.” There was a boy that came up here, he got off from work, and he came running up to the cabs. We used to play checkers, you don’t about the cabs now. So I got a checker board in my car right now. He came running, “I need somebody to go to Alachua. But I ain’t got but twelve dollars.” And the guy, “I ain’t going for no twelve dollars.” So I walked outside and the barbershop boy pointed at him and pointed at me and talk to him like that. I walked outside because I didn’t want to say it in front of them, “I’ll take you for twelve.” So he come out and said, “Him?” “Yeah!” He said, “I ain’t got but





twelve.” I said, “Give me the twelve. When can you pay the rest?” It wasn’t but fifteen dollars. He said, “I’ll get you when I get payed off.” Just like that. I said, “Come on, I’ll take you.” But if someone asked him, I took the fifteen. I took him to Alachua and came back and that same guy was sitting there, hadn’t head out. I had made twelve dollars and he was sitting right there. And about three weeks later on, the same guy come up there and said, “I want a cab to go to Alachua!” And two or three of them jumped up. He said, “No, I want Nate.” See, I wasn’t there. He said, “Call Nate. Come here, I’m going to Alachua, the guy you took last week.” I said, “I’ll be there in eight or ten minutes.” I got there and took on back, gave me a good tip.

	D:	Because he appreciated it.



	T:	He appreciated what I had done. But everybody don’t have the money. But some people will pay. And some ain’t gonna pay you. They’ll fight you to pay you. I went to the store up there, about a month ago. I was carrying a knife in my pocket, just in case. If someone grabs me, I could get it loose. [Laughter] So the guy said, “Got any loose change?” I didn’t say nothing. He said again, “Got any loose change? You could say something.” I walked on right on. I didn’t say nothing. But I had my knife and I would give him some loose change if he grabbed me. [Laughter] He was getting mad like you owe him something. You don’t owe him nothing. I worked all my life.

	D:	Did you ever have problems getting your license to serve as a cab? T:	No





	D:	So you didn’t any accidents or issues to cause you a problem.



	T:	Well, this year, my birthday December 19th. I probably would’ve gotten no license but there’s a post out there and I couldn’t see it out of my right eye, but I could see it out of my left eye. So I went to the VA and they gave me that laser gun.

And I told the doctor, “I’m gon’ have to get my license.” And he said, “I’ll fix you, just sign these papers.” I signed them papers and I think cost forty-eight dollars. I gave it to my daughter and she faxed it and I got my license. But other than that, I wouldn’t have got it because my right eye was giving me a little problem. But now it’s clear. I can see good now. I have to try her wherever she want to go. [Laughter]. I just enjoy being able to do that at my age.

	D:	Did you have to carry people out of town other than Alachua County?



	T:	Yeah, Jacksonville and Orlando. My boys go to Orlando now. They make some money going to Orlando now. We used to take people to the airport like the weather was bad. They would call us because we had the contract with them.

	D:	Who else did you have contracts with other than the airport?



	T:	No, just the airport and sometimes the VA would call us depending on the customer, if he wanted you. Then I had a lot of connections with a lot of people working at Shands that would call me on the phone like that. See, if you’re nice people, people don’t forget that. I [1:02:17 Inaudible] to the store. His wife had had a baby and he didn’t have no money to get home. So I would drop him off then. “Cab driver!” I backed up. He said, “Maybe I shouldn’t ask you.” I said, “What do you want?” He said, “I aint got no money. My wife just had a baby and I





don’t have quite enough money to get home.” I said, “Where do you live at?” He lived right there on SE 15th Street. And he said, “I don’t get payed in two weeks. I work at the University.” I said, “Go get your wife and come on.” And I was down at that little store on Hawthorne Road and he walked up to me with the girl that was baby! And it was, I thin, her twelfth birthday. And he said, “He’s the one that I was telling you about that brought us home and I didn’t have no money.” I said, “Do you know me?” She grabbed me and hugged me. [Laughter] That was so nice. Every time I see her, she always waves at me.

	D:	Now where do you belong to church? T:	Old Jerusalem.

	D:	Oh you out in Mitioka.



	T:	But I was raised up in Pleasant Plain. But since I got married, I joined her church.

	[Turner’s Wife; TW]:	Yes, I go out there. Where I grew up in the Booker area and I went to a Baptist church all my family was Baptist. And I joined there and it’s just a hop and a jump out there. I enjoy going out there.

	D:	So your husband goes with you.



	TW:	He joined later so both of us are members of that church now.



	D:	Tell me a little bit about your children. The names of your children and what they’re doing.

	T:	My oldest son, he’s Nathaniel, he’s Nat Jr. He’s the one running the cab stand.





	D:	He’s the one that gave me your phone number.



	T:	Yeah, he’s the one. He’s the oldest. And my daughter, Liddell. She lives out here on Duval. Shes got three girls. One of them is a nurse at Shands. The oldest one is accounting at the University of Florida, is it?

	TW:	The oldest one just finished up college. She’s a policeman at the University of Florida.

	D:	I need their names.



	TW:	The oldest one is Kenan. And the second one is Kevan. And she Kevan is a nurse at Shands. And Kalen is the youngest. And she is a policeman at the University.

	D:	All these are your daughters?



TW:  Yes. My son is the oldest and his name is Nathaniel Turner the third – T:  Junior

TW: The third. You’re the junior. But we called him junior. He has two girls, both just finished college. One of them finished culinary school and her name is –

T:  The oldest one is named Natalie and the other one is Elizabeth. Natalie is out here across 43rd; she works for doctor’s office there. I think the address is – but of course you don’t need to know that, 4407. Across 43rd, next road to your left, you whip in there. She’s works in a doctor’s office there.

D:   Okay, and that’s Natalie.





	T:	She’s the oldest. Lizzie is the young one. She at culinary. She’s up north. She’s over four or five different schools. She’s a good cook too. [Laughter]

	D:	Well, you all have done very well in raising your children and making sure they know they value of living and how to take care of themselves. So this is to be commended.

	TW:	And our youngest son has a boy and a girl. D:	And what’s his name?

	TW:	His name is Van Turner Sr.



	D:	And he’s a Sr.?



	T:	He’s the youngest. His daughter goes to the University of Virginia and she will be graduating next weekend. She’s a tennis player at Virginia. She says she’s going pro. I hope she would. [Laughter] Her name is Kaih. And he’s got a son named Van Jr. He’s going to North Carolina. I don’t know the name of his school but this is his third year because he went to school for two years in Ocala. And he plays basketball. They all doing good.

	D:	And I’m very proud that you all have taken the time to let us come into your home and talk to with you this afternoon. Do you have anything else you would like to mention?

	M:	I did have one question. Before we started recording, you mentioned the names of the other safety cab drivers when you started. Could you repeat them now that we’re recording?





	T:	Let’s see. One was George Walker, Simon Page, Sonny Boy Bill, I don’t know if that’s his real name or not, but it think its Willy Bill, and Jesse McDonald, Ed McCray, Billy McCray, Stafford Sapp. A lot of them would come and go and wouldn’t stay. My brother had five cars once and he had a guy drive for me. But some of them would come and stay. You can’t trust everybody with your money. Some of them aint gon’ do right.

	D:	What was your brother’s name?



	T:	Edel Turner. He was staying in the corner house when you come round 8th Ave and turn, that corner house was his. My sister had that house. We bought it from Mr. Green, Angus Green. You heard of him? He’s from Jonesville. He had a son named Oran Green.

	D:	The Greens worked on the project with me.



	T:	I didn’t know too much about Mr. Green at that time but he knew my parents and my daddy.

	D:	Well, you know the building at Pleasant Plains. The service building is named for Green.

	T:	Really? One of his brothers used paint Pleasant Plain, Angus. He was a school teacher. I used to be down there with him. He would rope me and he’d say “Twist that thing round here boy.” [Laughter]

	D:	Let me ask you, what would you like for us to remember about you and your wife here today?





	T:	Well, we’ve been married to sixty years!



	D:	And where did you marry? Here in Jonesville or --



	T:	No, we got married at the courthouse in Gainesville. She’s been putting up with me ever since! [Laughter]

	TW:	Actually, we’ve had a good life. He does not like to go out to eat so I cook all the time. And makes sure he has hot breakfast every morning. And I cook dinner, sometimes we go out but not often. And he says I’m a good baker. We go out to church and so I enjoy going out there. I sing in the choir and I’m the church’s financial secretary. I pay all their bills and I do a lot of baking for the church.

	D:	How about your travels?



	TW:	I do travel a lot because all my siblings live in New York. So I travel a lot in the United States and out of the United States. There are eleven of us and I just had a sister to die in January. I’m the seventh sister. My mother had seven girls and two boys and then a girl. So it was eight girls and two boys. And we went to school in Alachua. We were out in Booker area. So we went to school there so we went there by bus. And we farmed. We had a lot of hogs and cows. My sister used to milk the cows. I tired milking them and I did pretty good. My mother canned and every morning, before we went to school, I never will forget, she made sure we had hot breakfast. And there were ten of us. After she got breakfast finished, she was a seamstress, she would go to the machine and she sewed. She made all of our clothes, even the pants for my brothers. Then, she sewed for us and other people. They would bring her material to the house so





that the children – during the school time, she would sew for everyone in the neighborhood. I don’t know how she did, but she did. I was telling Nat not too long ago, I said, “I don’t remember not one time we went hungry.” And we could back more than one time if we wanted food to eat. Good mother and father too. She was from Ridgeway, South Carolina and we still have family there. My father was from Florida and he lived in the Daytona Beach area. All my siblings went away. When they finished school, they lived in New York. And I was the only one that stayed in Florida. And my sister Ali came back and she married a guy and she was on 5th street. And then a couple others came back. We had good parents. We never wanted for anything because she sewed and we always had plenty of food. Plus we farmed.

	D:	What was your mother’s name?



	TW:	Her name was Elizabeth Butler Ganey. Everyone called her Eliza for short. She was form South Carolina. She went to college there.

	D:	Is there anything you would like to add or anything you would like to be remembered for?

	T:	I used to bake though. Well, she’s a good cook. You don’t need both of us cooking. [Laughter] But I can cook.

	TW:	I made some cake there if you want some. It’s nice and fresh. I just made it this morning.

	T:	I make pecan pie mostly during Christmas. She orders pecan from some part of Georgia, isn’t it?





	TW:	Yes.



	T:	My barber, he gives me a pair of clippers. Every holiday, he’s looking for a pie. [Laughter] I used to cut my hair, but that’s my barber. I get a haircut every week. [Laughter]

	TW:	He doesn’t let it grow out. He doesn’t have style.



	T:	Get it off. That’s the style, get it off. [Laughter] If you go to the barbershop now, you’re out fifteen, twenty dollars. I get a haircut every week.

	D:	Well, we want to thank you for taking your time this afternoon to share some of the history and some of the good things that have happened on 5th Avenue with the cab service. Some of the people you served. Some of the places you’ve had to move to, but mainly form Jonesville to Gainesville. Do you have other things you would like to add?

	M:	This has been a great interview. Thank you for –



	T:	I’ve been to a lot of places that I wouldn’t have gone if I hadn’t been driving cab. Because I went to the VA one day, the dispatcher said, “Got a guy that wants to get to the airport. But the doctor said he got to talk to you first.” So he come down, he didn’t want to get on no plane, he wasn’t able. And he wanted to Witchika, Florida. You ever heard of that? That’s beyond Tallahassee. So he wanted to go to the airport but he was in no condition to fly. And so he wanted to talk to a driver. So I said, “I don’t know where that is.” I didn’t say nothing to him. Somebody said, George I think, said, “I got a bad tire.” Sinclair said, “I aint got no bad tire, but I aint going!” And I said, “Is the money right?” He asked, “Who





was it that asked if the money is right?” He heard me, he said, “Tell him to come talk to me.” So I went on down to the VA. He said, “I’ll be sitting out front in a wheelchair.” I slowed up and the security guards were like, “Come on! Come on!” And I wound my glass down and said, “Can I park there?” They said, “You got five minutes.” And I got out and talked to him and said, “I’m from Safety Cab and it’s my understanding you wanted somebody to take you to Weewaa Witchika.

I’m not familiar with Weewaa but I’ve been to Tallahassee.” Well he said, “You might not have to go Tallahassee if I can catch the bus.” I said, “My wife is sick and she just had a baby and she can’t drive. I got to get home.” He said, “I’ll take care of ya.” I said, “What are you talking about?” He said, “I’ll give ya a hundred and fifty in Tallahassee.” I said, “Lets ride!” So when I got to Tallahassee, he asked, “Does your front seat go back so I can relax?” I said, “Oh yeah. It’ll go all the way back to the back seat.” So I pushed him around and put him in there and got in. So he said, “I need a cold soda.” When I left, I stopped and he said, “Get me big bottle and some ice.” And when we got to Tallahassee he said he wants a ticket to Weewaa. They said it would be the tomorrow morning till the next bus leave. I said, “You told me Tallahassee! I’ve gone done my job.” He said, “Yeah.” He put his hand on my shoulder and said, “How does another hundred dollars sound?” I said, “What road we taking?” [Laughter]. He was going to New York.

So I took him there about eleven o’clock and there were some guys doing something to some horses, I don’t know. And he told them, “Henry! Get him half a bushel of sweet potatoes.” And I got that and come on back home. I went so far, you go past Tallahassee and the time change. I had never been across the





river. You meet some good and some bad. You meet some nice people and sometimes some rough one too. Some out to get ya if you aint careful. You have to keep your eyes open. But it’s much dangerous now then it was back then. You got so many drug people now. And them people do something to you. You got to be on the ball with it. And just like I told them, “I would rather go to 39th than go to Dunkin.” [Laughter] I watch every move you make and you won’t get behind me. If you don’t want to get in the front, don’t get in. But a lot of people say you have to be careful. I watched this story on the TV about the cops, some people are rough! They’d be speeding and jump out of the car and run. And some of them be shooting back at them. [Laughter] I said I wouldn’t want to be a police. I’m just so glad my granddaughter going to be a police on campus. I don’t believe it’s going to be as dangerous. Out in the street, it ain’t nothing to play with. I told her, “You better learn how to shoot a gun, if a joker jump in here you gotta catch that door.”

	TW:	Well, they’re just gonna have to shoot me because I don’t keep no gun. [Laughter]

	T:	Well, I’m so glad y’all came.



	D:	Thank you for your time. The time is 3:20pm. I might be a few minutes fast.



Maybe 3:15. And the date is the 6th of May. And the day of the week is Monday and we’re closing out our interview. Thank you.

	T:	Thank you so much for coming. I enjoyed y’all













[End of interview]









Transcribed by: Charles Swanson



Audit-edited by: Sandra Romero, February 4, 2021 Final edited by: Sandra Romero, February 17, 2021