AAHP 630A; Durant; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 630A Elizabeth Durant 1-24-2009 Interviewed by Marna Weston on January 24, 2009 15 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Deland, Florida]



AAHP 630A

Interviewee: Elizabeth Durant Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date of Interview: January 24, 2009





	W:	This is Saturday, January 24, 2009 at the home of Ms. Elizabeth McArthur Durant in Deland, Florida. This is Marna Weston with the University of Florida Oral History Archives. Thank you very much for allowing me in your home tonight and just having a great weekend and this day of celebration on your 100th birthday.

	D:	Thank you.



	W:	Would you please state your name and spell it please?



	D:	My name is Elizabeth McArthur Durant; E-L-I-Z-A-B-E-T-H, Elizabeth; M-C-A-R- T-H-U-R, McArthur; D-U-R-A-N-T, Durant. Durant is my marriage name.

	W:	I know this is going to be an exciting interview. You’re the only person that has ever spelled out every letter of all the names. Normally people just spell the last name. [laughter] What was your date of birth?

	D:	January 24, 1909



	W:	That should have been easy for me, just minus a hundred. Where were you born?

	D:	Right here in Deland, right across the street from where I’m living now. That was the home.

	W:	So you weren’t born in the hospital? D:	No.

	W:	Could you talk about your parents for a second? Who were your mom and dad? D:	Who were they?





	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	D:	My father’s name was John McArthur. He remarried to my mother which was Pauline McArthur.

	W:	What was her maiden name? D:	McArthur Pittman.

	W:	Pittman, okay.



	D:	My dad originally came here from Elizabeth, North Carolina. He was married before he was married to my mom. That wife passed. When she passed, they had a two-year-old daughter and her aunt and uncle raised her. When my dad come to Deland, he met my mom and they were married. [laughter] She had five girls and four boys, but before that, his wife had one little girl. When my dad explained to mom that this wife had passed and had left a little girl, his aunt took the little kid and they raised her until she was grown and married. One day my dad asked my mom said, “Didn’t you say you had a daughter by your first wife?” He said “Yes.” She said, “Well, where is she?” He said, “Well, last I knew anything about her, she was in Atlanta, Georgia.” My mom said, “Well, did you ever write her or do anything for her?” He said, “No.” She said, “Well, I tell you what. I’m going to find her and I’m going to let her know that she has sisters and brothers alive. She has a step-mother and that she has a father.” So my mom wrote a letter to the police in Atlanta, Georgia and told him what she wanted and asked him would he please see if he could find this child. So the police did.

They found the aunt and uncle that raised her. They told her that they raised her from two-years-old until she was grown and married. When she married, she





moved to a little place called Hollister, Florida. She said, “Mama said, well I’m going to write there and see if I can find her there.” She said, “I’m going to let her know she has a living father, sisters and brothers.” She wrote this little place called Hollister. They answered the letter right away and said, yes, she’s a very sweet girl. She married a fine man and they built their home in a little place called Lake City. Then Mamma wrote to Lake City. [laughter] The answer was the daughter, as soon as she got the letter, she [Inaudible] and came to Deland. She was a sweeter person than ever lived. We corresponded with each other until she passed.

	W:	What were the names of your brothers and sisters?



	D:	I give you their names. It was six of us. This is the sister that her mother passed when she was two-years-old.

	W:	What is her name?



	D:	Clara Olston. This is mom’s first daughter. Her name is Watson, Maude Watson. Was the second daughter, her name was Willie Williams. I was the third daughter and my name is Elizabeth Durant. This is the fourth daughter and her name was Lula Jones and this was the baby sister. Her name was Elise Maude.

	W:	So this is you in this picture with six women. D:	Right.

	W:	And this is in the parlor in your family home. I see, it looks like a radio. D:	Yes, this is the home right over there.

	W:	That’s right across the street?





	D:	Yes.



	W:	Okay and what year was this picture taken? D:	What year was mom died?

	J:	Maw-Maw?



	D:	No, my mom.



	J:	[Inaudible] 1938.



	D:	Yes.



	W:	So this is from 1938? D:	Right.

	W:	This is just, I have to figure how to describe this, a black and white photo with six women with their hair of the period and they’re very close together. There are two on the front row and four on the back and taken across the street. It’s a wonderful treasure. Thank you for sharing that. I appreciate it.

	D:	Okay.



	W:	I would like to ask you about your grandparents. What you recall about them.



Who were your dad’s mother and father?



	D:	My dad’s mother in law?



	W:	Mother and father. Your dad’s parents.



	D:	I didn’t know any of my dad’s parents. My dad said after his wife passed, he moved to Florida. We never met any of his people but he always said it was just he and another brother, but we never got in touch with the other brother.

	W:	Do you know the brother’s name? D:	No.





	W:	How about your mom’s mother and father?



	D:	My mother’s father… what was grandfather’s name? [laughter] I’ve forgotten! J:	Malcolm.

	D:	Huh? I’m talking about Mom’s dad. J:	Mom’s dad. [Inaudible].

	D:	I don’t know anything about them. But my mother was a Pittman before she was married to my dad. She was a Pauline Pittman and she lived in a little place called Fernandina [Beach, Florida]. Then when she got with my dad, that’s when they built the home over there.

	W:	What is your earliest memory of going to school. Where did you first go to school?

	D:	When I was six years old, I went to kindergarten and my teacher was named Mable Sanders.

	W:	Where was that school at? D:	Where was the school?

	W:	It was in Fernandina? D:	No, here in Deland.

	W:	What was the name of the school? D:	Euclid High.

	W:	Could you say that again? Euclid?



	J:	Was it Euclid or Bronson. Bronson High School. D:	No, it wasn’t Euclid High then. Huh?

	J:	Bronson. It’s Bronson now.





	D:	Bronson High.



	W:	Bronson High. How long did you go to school there?



	D:	Until I completed eighth grade. They only went as far as eighth grade when I was going to school.

	W:	What happened after you finished school in eighth grade?



	D:	Well, my father passed. My mother had five children under me. Her dad and myself started sweethearting at school, so I told him after my dad died, I said, well, Fred, I guess this is the end with you and myself. He said, what happened? I said, well my dad is gone and Mamma has five children younger than I am and I just can’t leave her to take care of those children by herself. I said, I’d just rather give up you and help my mamma raise those children. So he said to me, he said, well if that’s the way you’re thinking about your mom, blessings are to those that wait, so I’ll just wait until I get you. So he did! [laughter] We courted nine long years before we were married. We were married two years before she was born and, of course, she’s the only one that we ever had.

	W:	So, by the she, you’re talking about your daughter Jackie who is here with us. D:	That’s mom’s baby. [laughter]

	W:	[laughter] What was your husband’s full name? D:	Fred Durant.

	J:	His middle name was Douglass. D:	Huh?

	J:	His middle name was Douglass, right? D:	Frederick Douglass Durant.





	W:	Okay, so named after the great orator and the leader, Frederick Douglass Durant.

	D:	[Yes.]



	W:	Was that what attracted you to him, that he had this very historic name? D:	Huh?

	W:	When you first met him, when you all were courting, did you first talk to him because he was Frederick Douglass Durant?

	D:	No, no, no. I had a boyfriend long time before I started with him.



	W:	Well, I’d like to talk about today. It was such a great celebration of your life. The mayor came out. We had a chance a few minutes ago to listen to some of his comments and I wanted to know if you have any reflections upon the official proclamation of the City of Deland and the mayor coming to the celebration that your family put on. How did you feel about that?

	D:	I think it was the greatest thing I’ve ever seen or ever been to! [laughter] I give all the credit to my sweetheart over there because when they said they was going to have a family reunion, I thought it was just going to be the family of us. So later on, her son, which is my grandson, said, Grandma… I said, “Yes.” He said, “When we have a family reunion, we’re going to have it on your birthday.” I said, “Well Eric, I don’t care for all that, baby.” I said, “You know how I am. I appreciate what someone do for me, but when it comes to love, I love them enough to do for them instead of having them do for me.” So they said, “Well, we’re going to get together and we don’t even want you around when we get together.” I said, “It’s okay with me. Whatever y’all do is up to y’all.” I said, “But I want you to let the





public know that this is not my doing, it’s you all’s doing.” So he started off with it and that’s the way it ended.

	W:	Well, it was just a lovely affair. There had to be a hundred people there at the Chisholm Center today.

	D:	I never expected half that many. I thought it was just going to be the family and maybe one or two of the friends that is out in this settlement.

W:  Well, you have a lot to look forward to because there was something on the wall that gave everybody a chance to write some personal reflections and there were some gifts that you’re going to open. How does it feel being a hundred years old and being African-American? What does that mean to you?

D:  I don’t know how to explain that but I feel like I was about sixteen ago. I mean, I feel that I am about sixteen years old. I don’t feel any older than a hundred at all.

W:  So you still feel the same as when you were sixteen. D:  Yes.

	W:	What do you think about Barack Obama being elected president? I’m sure everybody has asked you about this this week.

	D:	Well, that’s something I thought I would never see. My great grandmother used to live back out in the woods about three miles from me and we would always, Mamma, can we go out to grandma’s, Mamma… I guess she must have been an awful sweet grandmother, because there wasn’t no children out there for us to play with, but just to know that we was going out to grandma’s. One day my Granny and I were sitting down talking and she said, daughter, she said, “You know what?”” I said, “What Grandma?” She said, “Before the world is ended, the





top rail going to be on the bottom and the bottom rail going to be on the top.” I looked at her and I said, “Grandma, what you mean by that?” She said, “The white race is on the top now and we’re on the bottom, but before it’s over, we’re going to be on the top rail and the white ones going to be on the bottom.” This has happened. I never thought I’d see it.

	W:	Today at your celebration there was a woman that talked about her graduation and how she wasn’t able to have the dress that she needed to have at graduation. Could you talk about the graduation dress a little bit?

	D:	Yes. It was almost graduation time and something happened at that their house caught on fire. She wasn’t able to get her graduation dress. She was a friend to my daughter and she said, Mamma, she said, guess what. I said, what? She said, Willamina’s house caught on fire and she’s not able to get her dress. I said, well, let’s get her one. She said, you really…? I said, if she’s your friend. I said, sure. I said, I’ll give you the money. I’ll give you some and you give me some and we’ll give Willamina the money to get her a graduation dress. So I gave what little I had to her and she got stuff to make Willamina’s dress. Like I told them, I appreciate what you do for me, but I don’t feel as happy over what you do as I do doing something for somebody else.

	W:	That’s how you closed your comments when you made a few comments. I was so impressed to hear that. We talked a lot in school about the concept of servant leadership, that in order to be a good leader, a lot of times you have to be a servant to others. How do you reflect on that comment?





	D:	The only thing I can say about that is, my mother used to say all the time, love a person whether they love you or not. If you can’t say something nice about them, don’t say anything at all. I have a friend who, every time she’s with me, she has something bad to say about somebody else. I tell her over and over, Willamine, if can’t say something nice about somebody, just don’t say anything at all. Don’t tell me. She said, but I’m telling the truth. I said, well, I don’t care if you’re telling the truth or not! If you can’t say something nice, just don’t tell me. But it doesn’t do any good. She still… whenever I’m with her, she always finds fault in somebody.

	W:	But, in that situation with the graduation dress, that was a more positive situation.



You were helping somebody.



	D:	Yes.



	W:	The lady…. What was her name? She talked about graduating from Bethune- Cookman in 1968.

	D:	She was a Willamine…



	J:	Rayford. Her maiden name was Rayford.



	D:	Rayford. She was a Willamine Rayford. She married. She was a Willamine Johnson now. She married a man by the name of Ray Johnson. He passed about three years ago, wasn’t it Jackie? Three or four.

	J:	No, Mamma, that was about six or seven years. D:	Six or seven years.

	W:	Well, she said that you helped her to be the person that she was today.



	D:	Wow. I can’t say I did all that much help, but my biggest thing was just help her to get her graduation dress. So, I don’t consider that as being a whole lot.





	W:	The pastor of Greater Union First Baptist told a story about your service to the congregation there and talked about how you were locked in the girls’ bathroom once. Do you recall that situation?

	D:	I’m ninety-nine-years-old now and I’ve been there ever since I was six years old, so I’ve been there for ninety years. At that particular time, they had an outdoor toilet. They didn’t have a bathroom or anything. They had a tall, old, wooden building. What was I saying? I sang in the choir from the time I was about fourteen until she was old enough for the two of us to sing in the choir together.

	W:	Jackie.



	D:	So that was a long time. After that, they determined to tear the old building down and build a new building. We sold dinners. I helped sell dinners. I washed clothes for our pastor for free. I wouldn’t accept any pay. I taught Sunday School classes at times. I sang in the choir. I worked on the Usher Board. When they had associations, I served as a…what you call them?

	W:	Deaconess?



	J:	No, it’s a delegate. W:	Delegate.

	J:	It’s a delegate.



	D:	Yeah. So I did everything that I could. After we got the parson’s built, we decided that we was going to build a dining room. We didn’t have sufficient cooking materials for the dining room, so we decided that we was going to sell food and buy pots and things to cook with. Later on, we only had just to go on folks’ choirs. So the girl that spoke about us making the…





	J:	Robes.



	W:	Robes for the Youth Choir….



	D:	Yeah. She said, you know, you ought to organize us a Junior Choir. I said, I’m with you. We organized a Junior Choir and I said, you know what, let’s make some robes and let’s don’t tell our pastor. We won’t let him know nothing until one Sunday we are going to march in with all our children in robes. So we did that. What else you want to know?

	J:	About when you got locked in the bathroom [Inaudible]. D:	Huh?

	J:	About when you got locked in the major’s restroom.



	D:	now, that’s something I don’t remember. I don’t ever remember getting locked in the bathroom.

	J:	That must have been since he was there or something. D:	Huh?

	J:	That must have happened since Troy was there and you would remember… D:	No, that didn’t happen when Troy…. Nothing like that happened when he was

here.



	W:	Well, maybe we could talk about some bigger events. I’m trying to think. What are some significant events in your life that you remember, either personally with your family or things that happened in the country that kind of stand out for you?

	D:	I really can’t think of anything right now. Only, as I say… oh, my great grandmother, they lived way out in the country near the railroad tracks. We used to go out there to visit Grandma. She used to walk through the forest to take us





to the train station to see the train pass. I thought that was one of the greatest things that ever happened, for Grandma to do all that walking just for we children. She had a great big, old persimmon tree. She used to let us eat the persimmons. She had a grape vine that had purple grapes. She used to let us eat all the grapes we wanted. She had a smoke house. In the country, right, they always had a smoke house, a meat house. Called it a smoke house. She would say, “Well, are you children hungry?” Sometimes we’d say, “No Grandma.” Sometimes we’d say, “Yeah, we’re hungry.” She’d stop and fix a lunch for us.

	W:	What was your grandmother’s name?



	D:	Sarah Landkin. My grandmother’s name was Lucinda Watson. My great grandmother was Sarah Landkin.

	W:	This is probably not a… this is not a happy moment at all, but I’m curious… people always try to define where they are in life by where they were when certain things happened. I want to know if you recall where you were and what you were doing when you heard about Dr. King being killed.

	D:	When I had heard about what?



	W:	Martin Luther King, when he was killed.



	D:	Well, I didn’t like it, but what could I do about it? [laughter] I didn’t like it at all. I always said, well, they did it because we were Black.

	W:	Do you remember where you were and what you were doing when you heard about it?

	D:	Across the street there. It was the home place.





	W:	Did the neighbors come and tell you or did you hear it on the radio or how did you find out?

	D:	I heard my Mama and Daddy talking about it.



	W:	It was quiet here? You know, a lot of places, it wasn’t too quiet when that happened. People were very upset.

	D:	Oh yeah. Yeah.



	W:	How about… I’m trying to think of Florida things… the space shuttle? When the Challenger blew up. Do you recall when that happened or was that something you were paying attention to at the time?

	D:	When Martin Luther King got killed?



	W:	No, ma’am. I’m sorry, I switched out. I should have said it louder. When the space shuttle blew up. The space shuttle Challenger. When Reagan was president, they sent the teacher up in space and then the thing blew up.

	D:	We was children. We didn’t pay much attention. J:	Mamma

	W:	I’m trying to think of something else that probably… X:	[Inaudible]

	W:	Okay that makes sense. What do you think is the most important thing for people in this country to think about right now? What should Americans be most concerned about from your perspective, having lived a hundred years? What would you tell people, this is what you want to do with your life, what you need to be thinking about?





	D:	Forget about the other countries is one thing. Let each country take care of its own country. That would stop so much war, so much killing. That’s one thing. I cannot think of… [laughter] I don’t know of anything else.

	W:	Well, I like to end interviews by just thanking you, first of all, for letting me talk to you on this very special day.

	D:	Well, you’re kindly welcome.



	W:	Also, just in your own words, if there’s something you thought of that maybe I didn’t talk about that you maybe wanted to reflect on, or the day or the moment, if you would just talk about that as much as you want and when you have decided you have said as much as you want to, that will be the end of the interview.

	D:	Well, I can’t think of anything else. I think you asked all the questions that I really know or really can think of right now. [laughter] That’s it!

[End of interview]



	Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 4, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 18, 2021