AAHP 645; Graham; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 645 Dr. Elizabeth Graham 4-16-2019 Interviewed by Rachel Hujsa on April 16, 2019 13 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida’ Music; Vocal instruction; education]



AAHP 645

Interviewee: Dr. Elizabeth Graham Interviewer: Rachel Hujsa

Date of Interview: April 16, 2019







	H:	I am Rachel Hujsa with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I am sitting here with Dr. Elizabeth Graham, a vocal professor here at UF. And my first question is: when did music become a part of your life?

	G:	I think music has always been a part of my life. My father and my grandfather were singers — gospel music — and I grew up in a church that was very active in music. I was in the choir from the time I was a baby, so it’s always been there. It became more important, I think, when I was in high school, and I realized that I could use music as a way of furthering my education. So, I auditioned for the major schools and was accepted to all of them, but decided to go to FSU because — for graduate school, that is — because I was a teaching assistant there. One thing in music has segued into another thing. When I was coming through and doing my undergraduate work at North Carolina School of the Arts, I was solely concentrated on being a singer. Then, after that, when I went to graduate school and became a teaching assistant, I decided I’d really like to teach. So, I thought, “Well, if I can combine both, that would be the ideal situation for me,” and that’s what I’ve done.

	H:	Well, I’m so glad you’ve done that. Like I said, all of your kids really, really love you, but I read that you participated in a production of Madame Butterfly and you sang with the Houston Opera Company. Is that what it’s called?

	G:	Mmhm.



	H:	So, when did that happen?





	G:	Actually, when I was in grad school, George Darden who was my pianist, left FSU and went to Houston as coach accompanist, and they were doing a revival of Porgy and Bess. It was the big one that went to Broadway and Europe and everything else. He called me up one day and said, “I mentioned your name to David Gockley and John DeMain, and they want to hear you.” Well, the show was already cast, but I went up to Philadelphia where they were starting the show and sang for them. And, they hired me. I joined the Houston touring company then, and that tour took me to Broadway, to all the major cities in Europe. And so, for the better part of three years, I was on and off the road, and then I would go back when we were on a break and do work at FSU to try to finish my degree. Then, Butterfly came along. I did it first in Birmingham, Alabama, and then I did it here.

	H:	In Gainesville?



	G:	Yes. The Butterflies, the Besses, those kinds of things, the Lear, I began to branch out and do things with smaller companies like Charlotte Opera, but a major part of my career was on the road touring. That worked well, because I could tour and I had a good colleague in Orlando who would come up and teach for me when I would be gone, because I don’t like leaving my students hanging, and I trusted her. She and I have a lot of beliefs about voice and performance that are compatible. So, she would come and teach for me when I was on the road, and then I’d come back. It’s been an interesting career here, and I was lucky that, when I came over here, people weren’t doing so much of that.

	H:	Touring, you mean?





	G:	Touring or performing outside of the university. One of the questions I distinctly remember in that very room, one of the professors said, “Would you give up your singing to have this job?”, and I said, “No, I would not.” I think he was kind of shocked, and I said, “I would never want to study with anyone who had not had a career doing what I am training to do so, no, I will not do that.”

	H:	That’s a really good point.



	G:	Because I have always studied with people who’ve had careers or who were in the process of having a career. And I had just started out. When I came over here, I was finishing my doctorate, and I had won the Palm Beach Opera competition, and I was just starting to do things.

	H:	What year did you come here?



	G:	[19]79. So, I was a big advocate for people who wanted to perform to get out there and do it and still have their teaching job, because the two things are not opposites. I think they work together to make us better teachers, because we go out into the world, we face the critics, we see what the performance practices are and how careers are being made, and we bring that information back to our students. We are not just here to come into the room and hear people regurgitate notes and rhythms. They have to make music, and they have to be expressive.

That’s what we are here for; to help them become the best musician that they can be and to help them, hopefully, do the things that they really want to do with music.

	H:	Yeah. I’ve heard you’ve done a really great job of that. G:	Well, thank you!





	H:	Definitely! So, I just want to talk about UF, and since this is sort of a historical type of interview, I was wondering what was it like in the early [19]80s at UF, socially?

	G:	[Deeply Inhales]



	H:	I saw that face! That wasn’t a good face! [Laughter.]



	G:	[Laughter.] Well, there weren’t that many of us around — people of color. When I walk across the campus today, and I love doing that, because I love seeing the makeup of the student body and how they are interacting. When I came, you didn’t see that many African-American students or people of color in general either on the faculty or student body. So, I would go over to the Institute of Black Culture just to see some people of color and talk to them, and then, as the years went on, you saw more and more inclusiveness. That’s been a wonderful thing for me to see; the growth of people of color on this campus.

	H:	Did people treat you well?



	G:	Well, I think sometimes they didn’t know what to do with me, because I’m a pretty outspoken person.

	H:	And you have the talent to speak for it, too.



	G:	I have never felt that I had to be anything other than myself. I feel like I try very hard to accept people for who they are. If they have a problem with my color or anything else, the fact that I’m a woman, I’m gonna let that be their problem. I don’t want it to be mine.

	H:	Exactly. That’s a good way to look at it. But, did you experience difficulties based on your gender, then?





	G:	I think that the problems were there, and we all know that. To say that racism didn’t exist on this campus would be just totally untrue. It did exist. And, there were a few times when I felt like people were trying to “put me in my place,” but as I told one of them, my place is wherever I choose to be. I don’t want to be a victim. I never wanted to be a victim. I’m from a family of mixed people, so for me to come into a situation where I'm gonna be judged just by the color of my skin, I thought was just very small of the people, because I am here to do a job. And, I am going to do the best job that I can be, and hopefully I can do my job without letting someone’s personal biases get in my way. But, if they do get in my way, I'm gonna call it out.

	H:	Has it ever happened? G:	Oh yeah.

	H:	Here at UF?



	G:	Mmhm. Oh yeah, there have been times when you have to go to bat for things that you are up for and you feel like you deserve, like tenure, things like that, and sometimes very talented people have come up and had real problems because of people feeling like you don’t need to have that. But, you should have what you deserve, and if you have to fight for it, then you have to fight for it.

	H:	Have you had any students that also had that struggle recently? G:	No, I don’t think so.

	H:	That’s good. So, how have things changed then?



	G:	Well, I think, as the years went on — it’s been a long time since [19]79. I think that students come to the University of Florida, they are prepared. They’re bright.





They have a good idea of what the world is like and what they want it to be, and I see more students walking together and talking together that are of different races and come from different parts of the world. And that, to me, gives me hope. Maybe, as long as there are people of different races and different beliefs, there will always be that kind of, “Well, I am better than that person, and my view is more valid than that.” We probably will never be without that because as human beings we have our biases built. We kind of collect them as the years go on, but I think that talking about the issues of race and everything else that we have to talk about these days, which is a wide field of things, gives us hope that we can really look at another person who is totally different from us, skin color and everything else, and appreciate our differences rather than being afraid of them or trying to demean someone because they don’t look like you. I think it would be a very boring world if we all looked alike.

H:  I agree. Have you seen the school of music take on this stance? Or, I guess we have embraced diversity, but has it been a public or planned action to do that at the School of Music, do you think?

	G:	Music is a different kind of animal. I think we expect more diversity in music, because it’s always been there. Even back when we had segregation and all the ugly words in the vernacular, there were still people who appreciated the talent and the music-making of people of color. So, even though we may not have been welcomed to perform in the big arenas, we could go to Europe and be more accepted over there. You know the history. There have been a lot of musicians who have gone there first and then come back here and been more appreciated.





But, again, as time went on, I think that more and more doors were open. I wouldn’t say they’re wide open for people of color, but they are certainly more open than they were when I started my career.

	H:	So, when you went to Europe when you were touring, did you feel a really big difference between being in the South and being there?

	G:	Yeah.



	H:	Yeah?



	G:	[Laughter.] Big difference. But now in the world, when you look around the world with all of the populists and nationalists, the ugliness rears its head in every country unfortunately, and it’s going to be up to people like you to get out there and do what you can to keep the doors open, to keep the windows open.

	H:	How do you think music can help us do that?



	G:	I think music is the thing that keeps us sane. [Laughter] I know in my life it has been the one thing that I could count on, that I could go to. And I think that if people were listening to more great music, not music that incites us to be angry about whatever is going on, but music that appeals to your soul and to the beauty of life, sometimes when you just want to escape. If I’m coming down here in the morning, I always have my radio on the Met broadcast to listen to great singers and great music, and it always puts me in the mood to come in here and try to get the best out of everyone. As a teacher, you are also a mentor, and, hopefully, you’re living your life in a way that people see you embrace everyone. You don’t have to agree with everybody, but you do have to have respect for human beings. They won’t always say or do what you want them to do, but, hopefully,





you can appeal to their sense of decency. That’s what I hope. If I have any kind of legacy in this school or in my circle of performing friends or anything else, it’s that I like to think that I have standards. I like to think that I can be a person who is accepting of people, even when I don’t agree with everything that comes out of their mouth. I am gonna work hard to try not to be an ugly American. [Laughter.]

	H:	There are too many of those. So, you mentioned that you’re a mentor, and from my own experience, I find that having a female teacher, like Dr. Odom, means a lot to me. So, being a woman of color, how do you think that your mentorship can impact students that are also women of color?

	G:	Well, I think that university life is hard, because we have a double duty. We have the music part of it, but we also have the academic part. I feel that sometimes one or the other comes easier to a student, and I’m sitting here as an example of a person who came through our university setting after being in a kind of conservatory-like setting to say that you can do it. You work hard? Yes, you’ve got to work hard at both things, and you have to really realize that if that is your goal, you have to determine that if anyone else can do it, you can. And if you can’t, you will discover that you can’t, and then we’ll figure out what you can do. So, my role as a mentor is to be a sounding board, I think, to help students arrive at their own conclusions about their lives and, if they’re in trouble, to direct them to the people that can help. If I’m not the person, then there are resources across this campus, and I encourage my students to take advantage of every opportunity to become the person that they want to be, which makes them a better musician and better at whatever they are going to do.





	H:	So, do you think giving kids self-confidence is one of the main parts?



	G:	Yes! I think that’s one of the main things, especially for performers or teachers, because we have to stand up in front of people and present, and if you don’t believe in what you’re doing, it comes across. It comes across. And so, one of the things that I really pound on is like yourself, really like yourself. That doesn’t mean you make excuses for yourself. That means you accept you. You find out what your strengths are, you find out what your weaknesses are, and you work on minimizing the weaknesses. You don’t avoid them. You have to face them. You have to really tell yourself the truth. Because when students come in and they’re having problems and you say right in the middle of the lesson, “Did you work on this?” and they say, “Well, I worked…”, I say, “No, now don’t tell me that, because I’ve been sitting across this room for a long time, and I know I’m writing the same things on these notes to you that I have written for a month or more. So what does that mean? Either you’re not listening or you’re not working or both, but it can’t mean that you have worked on this really, taking into consideration of what I have written here that you needed to work on, because I’m writing it yet again.”

	H:	That’s happened to me, too. Sorry to go back to it, but Madame Butterfly is my absolute favorite opera.

	G:	Mine, too.



	H:	Really? So, I just want to hear about what it was like playing her and being in that kind of production, because I would even love to just be in the pit for Madame Butterfly.





	G:	Madame Butterfly was the first opera I ever saw. This couple that lived in my hometown — I grew up in a very small town — and they knew my singing and they took me to Charlotte to a performance of Madame Butterfly. And I sat there, and I was in high school, and I thought, “One day I’m going to sing that.” And, when I got the contract to sing it, I would just read that contract over and over again and think, “I’m really gonna do this.” I think it’s one of those roles where you deal with going from a young, innocent, fifteen-year-old girl who has been taught to just be pleasing and serving to a place where you fall in love with a man who goes off and leaves you, and you have a child, and there is the racism built in there, because he doesn’t see you as a person. So, you are coming to the realization, because everybody around you is saying, “He’s not going to come back. You are not really his wife.” You’ve given up your religion, your everything else, to be his wife only to be demeaned and, in the end, humiliated. And you can’t live with that. That’s so much of a dishonor that you take your own life. But at the same time, you’re giving over the most precious thing that you have, which is your child, and trusting him to this man who has done all of this to you. Now that’s the one part that I don’t understand. [Laughter.] But to play that is so heartbreaking, and I remember the biggest challenge was to play that last act and not just lose it.

	H:	I know. I’m starting to lose it right now! [Laughter.]



	G:	Yep, that’s a lot. It’s an amazing piece, and I think that in every performance that I’ve done of that piece, that’s always been my challenge — to do it without just totally losing everything. You can cry, but you cannot—





	H:	You can’t sing any wrong notes! G:	Right. You can’t.

	H:	So, when you sing, you really, really put a part of yourself into it then? G:	Oh, yeah.

	H:	There’s no other way to do it, right?



	G:	No. There is no safe way. You’ve got to believe the story, and when you do the research, you find that there were so many of those stories. There were so many.

	H:	It still happens?



	G:	Yeah. It still happens today.



	H:	Honestly, I’m not an opera person, so I don’t know that many, but are there a lot of roles for diverse casting within operas that are still being played today?

	G:	I think that people are hiring more people of color for traditional roles in opera than they used to, because they used to say, “Well, this can’t be played by this person. Their skin is too dark.” Now, you have makeup that can make everybody look anything, so that excuse is no longer valid. I think people coming along like Leontyne Price and Grace Bumbry and Montserrat Caballé, the great Hispanic singer, and all of these women — see, we’re on their shoulders now. And, my kids who are coming along, and I have a few of them who are singing all over everywhere and one at the Met, well, now two at the Met, stand on our shoulders. So, things have gotten progressively more open like everything else, and we don’t want that pendulum to swing back. And if we don’t want that, we have to be vigilant, and we have to be excellent, because we don’t want people to use the excuse that we are not good enough.





	H:	Definitely. This is my last question, because I have to go to a lesson. A really hot- button topic today is should White actors be able to play people of color? And, there was just a recent thing where a White troupe was trying to put on a production of Porgy and Bess.

	G:	[Laughter]I think it’s kind of funny, but I think that Gershwin’s wishes should be respected. That’s just my opinion. Because he wrote that piece and he designed the music so specifically that it’s hard to look at it a different way. He went to Charleston, South Carolina. He lived among the people. He went to their churches. He designed those chorus pieces totally right out of church. They are imitations of what Black people sing in church. I’ve been in a concert version, and, he says concert versions you can do as long as the leads are African- American. But, for people to put on a production, and I saw the picture. I was just like, “What?” It’s almost like a caricature and almost like, “Why would you want to do this when this is totally out of your experience?” I don’t agree with it, and that’s just my opinion. I don’t think it’s a racist opinion. I think that Gershwin, in his mind and his heart, specified that it be done, and that’s what we do.

	H:	Yep. I think that’s a wonderful point, and I totally agree with that. I think most people would.

	G:	Yeah, because when you see those wigs and costumes and all that, it’s almost like they want to do it in Black face, which I think is insulting.

	H:	People need to hear that, I think.



	G:	Yeah. Now, if they want to do a duet or something from the opera, fine. You are standing on stage; you do the duet beautifully. Great. I think Sam Ramey or





some baritone and soprano did the Bess, You Is My Woman Now beautifully. But they are not standing there in costume. They’re not in Black face. Also, you have to realize that this music, a lot of it is in dialect. I don’t want to look at someone because, given the history of where we’ve come from, you look at that and you almost think, “Well, are they making fun of this? Are they taking it seriously?

What’s the motivation?” It is a beloved piece, and we know that. When I toured with it in Europe, people absolutely loved that music. They love the story, because it’s such an unlikely story. But, no, I don’t want to see it. [Laughter.]

	H:	Good! Neither do I.



	G:	And, that’s totally honest. I just don’t want to see it.



	H:	[Laughter.] Well, thank you for your honesty! That’s what this kind of interview is for. Thank you so much for talking to me. I really, really appreciate this so much.

	G:	Well, you're very welcome. I’m around here all the time, as you well know, and, if you need to ask me something, I’m here.

	H:	Thank you so much! G:	You're very welcome.





[End of interview]





Transcribed by: Dewin Anguas Barnette, July 23, 2019 Audit-edited by: Sandra Romero, March 26, 2020 Final edited by: Sandra Romero, July 6, 2021