AAHP 345; Butler; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 345 Shirley Butler

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed on February 26, 2008

8 minutes | 5 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 345

Interviewee: Shirley Butler Interviewer: Unknown Date: February 26, 2008



	I:	Tell us a little bit about who you are, and we’ll talk a little more about ACT Elementary School.

	B:	I’m Shirley Jackson Butler. I graduated from ACT in 1955. I started school at ACT in 6th grade, but before that we went to a little country school out near Santa Fe; Stanley Elementary School, it’s called. In sixth grade I went to ACT. Well, that was quite a change for me. Because in the little country school, we had one teacher. She was the teacher, principal—. [Laughter] Yes, she even made food for us, made our lunch for us. So when we went to ACT, it was quite a switch. A little bit disappointing because I expected us to have a cafeteria; we didn’t have a cafeteria. All we had was a little concession stand. And for a nickel, you could buy something they call an Ike and Mike? And a nickel for milk. And usually, that was lunch. We didn’t have a cafeteria. We would go out under the trees on campus and have our lunch. That’s the way it went.

	I:	So, tell me about—Mr. Mebane was the principal at ACT at that time when you came into the school?

	B:	When I first got there, he was still there. He was aging. He was just a principal; he didn’t teach in classes that I remember. His wife taught math. She was one of the math teachers. Mr. Mebane was, like, playing father to all of us. School then was like a big family. Your teachers were people who had your best interests at heart. You could feel the love and concern from family. It was far different, I would say, from the way things are now.

	I:	And did you graduate from ACT then?





	B:	I graduated from ACT.



	I:	So from grades six through twelve? B:	Twelve.

	I:	What did they start with at ACT at that time? They start with first grade? B:	First through twelve.

	I:	And tell me some of the activities you were involved in as a student at ACT.



	B:	I mostly sang in the chorus. I didn’t get involved in sports because I lived way out in the country, and there was no one to pick me from practice in the evenings.

But I did sing in the chorus.



	I:	Well you brought some samples today of some things. Would you share those with us?

	B:	I have a clipping from the newspaper, from the Herald. And it shows the date that the school opened in 1922.

	I:	Oh, very interesting. Would you turn that around so that the audience can see it?



This is a newspaper clipping?



	B:	Right. One with a picture of the old school.



	I:	Very interesting. And what else do you have? B:	I also have a picture of my class.

	I:	Oh, and please point out which one is you! [Laughter] B:	[Laughter] Okay, I’m here.

	I:	And this is the class of—? B:	1955.





	I:	Great samples! Thank you for sharing that with us. Tell me about the length of each class period during that time.

	B:	If I remember correctly, the class periods were fifty minutes. They would give us a few minutes to go from one class to the other.

	I:	How many classes did you change in your day?



	B:	Now, I’m not going to be very exact about this, but I think about seven?



	I:	And to and from school, could you talk about that a bit? How did you get to and from school?

	B:	We caught the bus, was a school bus. A flat-top bus, I remember it very vividly. I had never seen a vehicle with a flat top. It was a flat-top bus and Mr.—we had a bus driver who very dear to all of us—Mr. Lippert, George Lindren? He would take very good care of us. I had to walk about two miles from my home to the bus stop to catch the bus.

	I:	Really?



	B:	Mmhm.



	I:	And then the bus would drop you off and you would walk to your— B:	Back home.

	I:	So where, logistically, did you live? Because ACT was located further into town into Alachua, I understand.

	B:	Right. I did not live in Alachua. Let’s see. I lived nearer to Santa Fe, Florida. I:	So where is that now? What’s that near? It’s further out?

	B:	It’s further north of Alachua.





	I:	There’s a notebook, and you shared your class picture. There are also some very interesting samples of just report cards, a history of ACT, which is important because out of ACT came Mebane, with the understanding that Mr. Mebane was the principal for thirty years at ACT. And once ACT was closed, then he became the principal here at Mebane.

	B:	Mmhm.



	I:	Good history, rich history.



	B:	Let’s look through the book and see what else. There’s a commencement exercise, there’s a graduation list, it’s the program for a graduating class of 1949.

	I:	What was your reaction and the community’s reaction to the closing of your school, the closing of ACT?

	B:	Now, when ACT actually closed, I was not here. I was away at school. But all of my siblings were affected by the change, because my brother graduated from the first class of Mebane, 1957.

	I:	Really?



	B:	And he’s the second of eight children. So everybody else graduated from Mebane.

	I:	Everyone graduated from Mebane. B:	From Mebane, yes.

	I:	We thank you today for your sharing your history. This has been very, very interesting. I love the picture of you and the graduating class and your robe. [Laughter] That was a treat for us. Thank you so much, Ms. Butler.

	B:	You’re welcome.











[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Justin Dunnavant, August 22, 2014 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, June 19, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019