AAHP 075; Bobbitt; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 075 Westanna Harvey Bobbit African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Edward Gonzalez-Tennant on September 5, 2009 41 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: In this interview, University of Florida (UF) alumna Westanna Harvey Bobbit explains how she was able to afford school without funding from her family as well as her experiences as an African American student. She goes in depth about the weird reactions she got for being one of the only black students to ride a bicycle around campus. Mrs. Bobbit is a die-hard gator who recalls her time at UF fondly. Furthermore, Bobbit recalls the difficulties she and her husband faced in finding a job after graduating and how this eventually landed them in the military, another experience she is greatly appreciative of. Lastly, Bobbit expresses her disillusionment with UF for not have any recorded history its black students.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 075

Interviewee: Westanna Bobbitt Interviewer: Edward Gonzalez-Tennant Date: September 5, 2009



	G:	Okay. So, hello. My name is Edward Gonzalez-Tennant, and I’m here interviewing Westanna Bobbitt Harvey—

	B:	No, Westanna Harvey Bobbitt.



G:  Westanna Harvey Bobbit. Sorry. [Laughter] And it is September 5th, 2009, and we’re at the Hilton in Gainesville, Florida. And so, thanks for being here today and interviewing.

	B:	It’s my pleasure.



	G:	And if you just want to start by telling us a little history about yourself, your family, where you’re from, when you came to UF, those sorts of things?

	B:	Well actually, I’m a native Floridian. I’m from a very small town up in the panhandle in Florida: Jackson County, my town is Sneads, S-N-E-A-D-S. And I’m the youngest of eight children, and actually had no idea how I was going to go to college because my parents didn’t have funding for me to go to school. But I knew that I was going to go, and the goal was to graduate in four years. So after graduating from Sneads High School in 1973, I went to Chipola Community College—it’s now Chipola College. And I was very, very engaged and active when I was at Chipola. Spent two years there, graduated and got my A.A. degree. Again, didn’t know how I was going to finish school, because I still didn’t have any money. So I sat out for a year—well actually, a semester—and I worked at a prison facility, Apalachee Correctional Institute. And I did that for the summers, to pay my way through school. I did get a Pell grant while I was here, and I had some other grants and some Mellon money, that’s how I really did it.





But so, sat out for a semester, and took some courses through the department of corrections. Went to Florida A&M University for some courses, but right the institution itself. So, that brought me up from—I graduated Chipola in [19]75. So we’re now at [19]76, January of [19]76 is when I came to the University of Florida. And the very first week that I was here, I met my future husband—I didn’t realize that, but I met him at a fraternity party. Yeah, he lived over next to the law center. So, I met him, and we started dating, and were an item, and got married the following year in August. So, met him in [19]76, got married in August of [19]77, and we just celebrated our 32nd anniversary on the 28th of August.

	G:	And what’s your husband’s name?



	B:	Jimmy. Same last name. And when I was at University of Florida—well, at Chipola I was a cheerleader, and I was Homecoming queen, and I was in all these activities while I was there; much smaller school. Came to University of Florida, and the University of Florida at that time was twenty-seven thousand students, more students than I had ever seen, you know, on once campus than I had seen in probably a city, other than when I traveled to D.C. and things like that. But it was just huge. And you became a number; you were just a Social Security number. Every place you went, that’s what you were. I think I was fortunate, though, because I came as a junior, so I didn’t get caught in some of the attrition that some other kids did who came here as freshmens and things like that. I was probably one of the few African American students that rode a bicycle. Nobody else that I knew, or that I saw that was of African American descent, rode a bicycle. You know, most of the other kids did, but I was one of the few.





And it’s like, “Oh, there she goes; there goes that crazy girl on a bicycle!” So, I rode a bicycle the whole time I was here, because that was the way to get around. Yeah. Yeah. Now I know it’s really common practice, but back then in [19]76, [19]77, it was not quite as common. And for whatever reason, it was just not common among African American students. That was just something that they just did not tend to do.

	G:	Was there a specific reason you rode a bicycle? Did you not have a car?



	B:	I had a car, but again, I was here as a junior; parking was real, real limited. I lived—and my first experience with my dorm, I was junior, and I was supposed to be in a junior dorm, and I ended up in a freshman dorm room with two freshmen. And my parents were supposed to leave that day, just drop me off and leave, but no. I had to get moved from that dorm to another dorm. And I ended up living in the grad dorm, and it was pretty far away from the rest of my classes and stuff.

So.



	G:	And where was the grad dorm, then? Do you remember? B:	Oh, I can’t remember, but it was on the—

	G:	Did it have a name?



B:  It was a—well I’m sure you probably have multi-story buildings now, but it kind of like the twin towers at that time because it was some of the tallest dorms that we had. Most of them were, like, three floors; like Broward and Jennings, those were three or four stories.

G:   But yours was—



B:   Yes it was the tall [inaudible 05:33], and that’s where…





	G:	Was it Beaty Towers?



	B:	Beaty Towers, yes! Yes, yes, yes, that’s where I lived. Yes. I had forgotten all about that, but that’s—so, I was a junior in the grad dorms. So, I went from being a junior in with the freshmen, to moving over to get into the grad dorm.

	G:	Do you think living in the grad dorm affected your performance or your engagement at UF? Did you meet any grads?

	B:	It was not as—oh, yes, I did. As a matter of fact, one of my roommates was from Pakistan, so that was very, very interesting. Yeah. She was a professor, she was taught in Pakistan. Yes. So, one of my roommates was from there. And my other roommate was from Gainesville. And my roommate who was here from Pakistan had left her family. She was a professor, as a matter of fact, and she was studying Mathematics, I believe. I can’t remember her name now, but—and what I found living in the grad dorm is, because they were so much older, or seemed like they were so much older, that I didn’t have some of the interactions that you would have as a junior, until I came—it was kind of like being at the opposite part of the campus, and everything else was going on in the main part of the campus. Because my friends were in Broward, and they were in Jennings, and closer in. So, I think that’s why I started riding a bike. I don’t even remember where I got that bike from, but that’s why I started riding it.

	G:	[Laughter] So, I guess returning to the reason you came, what was your major?



What was your degree?



	B:	I was an Education major. And actually, my mom wanted me to come to University of Florida. I had a nephew who had open heart surgery at Shands, and





my mom was really impressed. And that’s where she wanted me to go. Because I had actually grew up closer to Tallahassee, to Florida State, and I will tell you: initially, I wanted to go to Florida A&M. I was really a Rattler in my heart. But again, the money situation was just not very good. And at that time University of Florida was recruiting minorities very, very heavily. So, I was able to get the capital to come here.

	G:	So UF, was recruiting minorities mid-[19]70s, late [19]70s?



	B:	Mmhm. Yeah. So, there was money to come here. I had been recruited by another school, but it was out of state and I didn’t want to do that. I wasn’t ready to go away, so. And actually, had been accepted into University of West Florida; that’s where I was going to go. And then, got my papers in the mail from University of Florida, and hey—I never looked back. Plus, it was a nice little drive. Yeah. So, it was, you were away from home, but you weren’t that far away. Like when things happened, I remember I had to go home for a couple funerals and things like that. And you know, I could leave in the morning and still get there that same day. So. But it was, that’s where my mother wanted me to go.

	G:	That’s interesting.



	B:	Yeah. So, that’s who planted the seed for me for the University of Florida.



	G:	Now, other than being familiar with Shands and the medical complex, had your mother or anyone else in your family gone to the University of Florida?

	B:	Mm-mm. No. Out of eight kids, I have one sibling who finished college, and she went to a HBCU: Kentucky State. Yes. And no, that’s, we were familiar with it because she was bringing my nephew down here, quite frankly. But I had a





girlfriend that was at Chipola with me, and she and I were on the same cheerleading squad; we were on the same Homecoming court; and we came here. And as a matter of fact, we went to cheerleading tryouts. I’ll never forget: we went to cheerleading tryouts! I got down there and the girls were, the guys were doing these basket tosses with the girls—and we were not a co-ed team— and we said, “Okay, we might as well take our little marbles and books and go home, and not even embarrass ourselves, because we’re never going to make this.” But we were good on our squads, on our high school squads, and at our community squad, but it was just a totally different calibre here. But my daughter is named after a University of Florida cheerleader.

	G:	Really?



	B:	Yes.



	G:	Which cheerleader?



	B:	Her name is Jasmine. Yes.



	G:	So UF has really become a major part of your life.



	B:	Yes. And my daughter knows that she is named after a University of Florida Gator cheerleader. We call her Jas from time to time, because this young lady had “JAS” on her outfit, her name. And she was from Fort Lauderdale. I can’t remember Jasmine’s last name, but she would have been one out of—I’m thinking she was like the second African American cheerleader; the first year I was here, was one. And I can’t remember her name, but I can remember Jasmine’s name. And my daughter’s named after her.

	G:	Now is your daughter college-age yet?





	B:	Yeah, my daughter is in the Air Force. Yes, she’s an intelligence officer stationed over in Qatar. She did her time in Iraq, but we had twins, and we lost our son four years ago. But neither of our kids came to Florida. They’re big Florida fans now, but neither of them came to Florida.

	G:	I guess that’s important, in and of itself. [Laughter]



	B:	Oh, yeah! They’re diehard Gators, yes. Oh, yes. And I’m a diehard Gator. As a matter of fact, people say—because I’m normally in my Gator paraphernalia: my earrings, my flip flops, the bag, you name it—and they say, “Oh, you’re a Gator fan.” I say, “No, I’m a Gator wonan [11:34].” A fan is someone who aspires to go to the university. I am someone who graduated from the university. So, there’s a difference between being a fan, and a wonan. I am a Gator wonan, not fan. [Laughter] So.

	G:	I really like that, I never— B:	So, that’s how I translate it.

	G:	Yeah. I think that works very well.



	B:	And you know, those of us who can, we do: those who can’t, they [inaudible 11:59]. [Laughter]

	G:	[Laughter] So, you’ve definitely taken on that—



	B:	Oh, I definitely have a Gator mentality. And I will tell you, I was so excited to get back to my SEC country, because I was in the Pentagon when we won the first national championship. You know, they don’t know anything about football up there? That was horrible. And I was at the Air Force Academy when we were in the SWAC, or some little—WAC. That was the WAC. What is this? What kind of





conference is this? They were rocking the rainbows and stuff like that. So, I was so happy to get back to SEC country. Yes, it’s wonderful.

	G:	Well so, you know, when you finished, you graduated in the late [19]70s?



	B:	Yes, during the dark dun-diggy days. Those were dark ages, that we played football in the first half, and then we went into the locker room, fell asleep, and came out, and just snoozed on through. We’d be beating Georgia in the first half, and come back and just get stomped. Nothing like it is now. Mm-mm. Nothing.

Nothing. You know, nobody would have been thinking about coming out and staying in the stadium all day.

	G:	Now, it’s every game. Every game of the year. Even when there’s not games, sometimes. [Laughter] So, what did you personally do after you graduated? What was sort of the rest of your life?

	B:	Well, my husband and I got married in August after we graduated. We moved to Orlando. And at that time, seems like times were how they are right now; couldn’t get a job, especially without experience, and I had my BA at that time, not my master’s. So actually, my husband went into the insurance business. And I did telecommunicating, you know, did some little odds and ends jobs, because I couldn’t really find a job right at that particular time. So much like now. It’s like history repeats itself, so people need to know things will get better: they do. They do. It’s kind of cyclic. But we ended up moving to Washington D.C., after he joined the Navy. Joined the Navy as an enlisted person, we moved to Washington D.C. And while we were there, that was in 1979—we moved in [19]78, and in 1979, I decided that I would look into the military. And I did. I went





to all the recruiters’ offices, and they were all in the same area. And whichever one would give me the best deal. And the Air Force decided they would give me a commission. So, I went off to Texas—San Antonio—and I was a twelve-week wonder. You could get your commission in twelve weeks. It had gone from sixteen weeks to twelve weeks. So, the people who were there for sixteen weeks were like, “Oh, look at you all coming in!” So, we were the twelve-week wonders. So I graduated from officer training school, and the rest is history. I was on active duty in the Air Force for twenty-six years, retired as a colonel, which is, we’re in the top percent of our group, when you are able to retire as a full bird colonel.

Especially females. And they would break it down into even more minorities, so.



	G:	That’s fantastic. Wow. That’s really amazing.



	B:	And that experience was just wonderful, wonderful for me. I mean, I had opportunities to do things, like be in charge of people at an early age compared to my peers who were working in civilian sectors. And even now, I did not realize how great our benefits were until I came back to the first alumni reunion. My first one was two years ago. And I came back, and I’m talking to people. And it’s thirty years, or a particular age, and you got the 401k that you got to pay into, and if you were in the school system, the DROP program has just come into being. So, our retirement system is just leaps and bounds above what other people were doing. Now, while you’re on active duty, you might be someplace in corporate America where you can get more money. But when you come out—unless you’ve just been really, really frugal—don’t have that nest egg, there is no continuous pay until it’s over, and it continues to go up.





	G:	But the Air Force—



	B:	The military, not just the Air Force. All of them pay the same things for the same rate unless you’re in hazardous duty areas, or you’re a pilot or something like that. Yeah. So, it’s been very, very good. So, you know when I was at the Pentagon, I had my little Florida Gator, I had a little wooden one that was on my desk. And there would be a guy that would always come in, and I could tell—he’s retired, he’s four-star general now—but he was the kind of man that he would turn my Gator over. And I knew he had done that, because he said his money and his children went to Florida State. So, he would always come in and mess with my— [Laughter] But, the Gator Nation, before it became the Gator Nation, the Gators were everywhere. Everywhere.

	G:	Even in the top halls of the military!



	B:	Every—even at the Pentagon. Yes, we were. We were representing. As a matter of fact, there was a guy who graduated from here the same year that I graduated. He was in the ROTC program, and he’s now a senior executive in the Senior Executive Service. We didn’t know each other here, but he graduated from here. Yeah, he was in the ROTC program. Yeah. So. But we are everywhere, and I actually am a diehard—you know, when I see someone, I do do the “Go Gators!” [Laughter] You know, like the little commercial. So I’m a walking, talking advertisement for the Gators. And I had my championship tag when we changed cars, because we’ve moved from so many places. We’ve lived—we started out in Washington, D.C.; we went from there to Langley Air Force Base in Hampton, Virginia. We went from Hampton to Okinawa, Japan; we were there for three and





a half years. From Okinawa, we came back to Andrews. From Andrews, we left and I went to the Air Force Academy. And I was there for three and a half years. And from the Air Force Academy, went to Japan again; this time went to the mainland, to Yakota Air Base, which is close to Tokyo. And I was there only for a year, because I got selected to go to professional military education school. And then in the military, if you’re going to progress, you have to go to your school.

And they have different schools at each level, a progression. They have one when you’re a lieutenant to captain, and then they have one when you’re in the mid-ranks. So that time I was in the mid-ranks, and I was at my last year of eligibility, so my boss let me come back to the States. My husband, our kids, we went over together on what was known as a join spouse assignment. So, we all went together as a family. But because my husband was in the Navy, and he had his own commitment and I had mine, he had to stay, and I got to come. And the kids chose to come with me, so we came to Alabama—Montgomery, Alabama.

And I did that, and then I ended up staying and being on faculty there. But I guess I was just destined for Washington, because while I was on faculty at Maxwell, I got a call from the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Pentagon, and I ended up being the protocol officer to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

	G:	When or how long did you do that?



	B:	I did it for almost a year, and then I got selected for school again. And I was really, really blessed for my school assignment; I got to go to what’s called the Atlantic Council of the United States. It’s a political think tank in Washington D.C.,





and we worked with, there were people there from—well there was a fellow from Eqypt, the services. I was the Air Force’s fellow. And we had countries there were from Korea, and Singapore; you know, other varying countries. And the person who was the CEO of our council helped write the Marshall Plan, years ago. Andy Goodpaster, Gen. Goodpaster. Yes, so that was quite an experience.

	G:	I can imagine! So, you were in D.C., but you were doing many different things over the years. [Laughter]

	B:	Oh, yeah, yeah. I have done lots of things. But protocol probably is what led to my—singled me out for my success, I think, because I was in a non-support area. Or, I was in a support area, as opposed to a flier or something like. But all my career, or it seems like a good bit of my career, I was working for senior officers, or people who were more senior to myself. So, I think that kind of had to with my success. And I was able to do that well. But I had three assignments as protocol officer, three and half years as commander at the Air Force Academy, a year of command at Squadron Officer School, which is our school for our younger people who are coming in. Yeah. So, I’ve done well for the Gators. [Laughter] Yeah, I have.

	G:	Sounds like it. Do you and your husband live in Florida now?



	B:	Yes, we retired to Brevard County. My husband is from Brevard County, so we retired there.

	G:	And so, as we kind of start to wrap up, obviously you’ve been able to—you’ve had your own life, you’ve been able to come back and forth and see UF, and obviously follow the Gator what we call “Nation,” now. So, if you had the ear of





the university to say what you wanted to, this is what you’ve done positively, this is what maybe you can improve on, is there anything along those lines that you’d like say?

B:   Well, I will tell you I was very disappointed last night when I went to the reception.



Not by the event; the event was very, very nice. But I was disappointed to hear that there is no written history of those of us who graduated from University of Florida from the [19]60s up until now. There is no written, captured history of African Americans. I was completely floored by that. You know, being in the military where we are so big into diversity and things like that, and you know, I’m very proud of University of Florida, and I talk about it all the time, but I was really disappointed. And I had no clue that that was the case. And then, in talking to some of the people that I was talking to, and they said not only is there not any history, but the leadership here knows that there is no history and does not seem to be concerned that there’s no history. And I said, “Now, are we talking about the president? Because when I was here two years ago, the president sat at the table that I sat at. He and I talked, and he seemed like he was pretty genuine, and was about equal opportunity for all, everyone, so.” And the person responded, “Yeah, well, if you can get his personal ear, perhaps he will listen.

But it’s getting through those who work to get to him.” So, I was pretty taken back by that.

	G:	Yeah, we have a lot of either hidden or neglected historical periods at UF, and there’s I think a large part of the community that is the University of Florida





historically and today, that that history is, needs to be written, it needs to be acknowledged. It needs to be honored.

	B:	And then I was even, I guess even more baffled, because when I was here I did not necessarily see some discriminatory actions that were taking place. And maybe I was a little bit more blind to them, because when I was in fifth grade I was the only little Black kid in my class when immigration first began in the state of Florida. Yes. So, you know, I’ve been through the real hateful being called the N-word every day, my brothers being beat up every day. So when I came here— again, I came as a junior—I probably wasn’t as immersed in the school as some of the people who were here from freshman to senior year. But I was not aware of some of the ugliness, also, that also was part of this university, and that I understand is still pretty blatant.

	G:	Yeah, there can be—there is some very ugly behavior that takes place. Across time, but still, yeah.

	B:	So I was, and I’d like to think that I am pretty situationally aware, but I just didn’t see that at that time. Although I will tell you that my girlfriend, the girlfriend and I that came here together? She was not African American, and I did not see her anymore when we were here. She joined a sorority, and she lived wherever she lived, and I lived wherever I lived. And it was just like a totally different world.

When we were at Chipola, we were very integrated and stuff like that, although it was the first time that she had ever been integrated with someone of a different color and culture than herself.





	G:	That does bring up some interesting comparisons, or maybe even dichotomies between, you know, we cast the smaller towns and less populated areas—as a culture or a country, we tend to think of those as the more discriminatory or bigoted places, but I think sometimes that—

	B:	Hold on, our daughter’s overseas. [Takes phone call.] G:	That’s fine.

	B:	Hi, honey. Oh yeah I’m doing my interview right now. Say hello. Love you too.



Bye bye. [End of call.] Yeah, she’s calling from Qatar.



	G:	Wow, so is your daughter from Qatar?



	B:	That’s where she’s stationed now, mmhm.



	G:	Yeah, not to suggest that she’s from— [Laughter]



	B:	Yeah, we Skype with her every day. Twice a day, we Skype with her. We haven’t done it since we’ve been here, so this is the first time. So, we have missed seeing her. She left on the first of June, and she arrived in country on the third of June. But we’ve Skyped with her almost since she’s been there. So we’re missing her today and yesterday.

	G:	Well do you think—returning to, just prior to the phone call—do you think that maybe being in the college of education, or maybe being in a grad—not to make grad students culturally conscious or sensitive, but do you think that, maybe the place literally, like the geographical place, and the topical place on UF maybe helped—because I think even today, when we talk about sort of racial ugliness at the university, it tends to be focused in certain colleges. I’m not going to name them, but you can put my name on record as calling college racist. But do you





think that that was similar in the past? That maybe there were places or degrees or colleges on campus in the [19]70s where maybe that ugliness was more apparent, and you were somehow—?

	B:	Outside of that?



	G:	Yeah. Because of happenstance, or you know.



	B:	I know if I was associated with the college. I will just tell you that I’m the kind of person that does—matter of fact, when I was in my training school and I was known as Ms. International Officer, I am someone who pretty much didn’t see— you know, I don’t see color barriers. So, you know, I’m kind of a mainstream kind of a person. So, it would not have been my choice to just be over in this one little group. If I hadn’t walked intent to that environment, and that’s just how I was.

That would not have been my choice; I would’ve been all over the place. But that was not—you know, the timing for me was not right. I came in as a junior, wasn’t going to make the cheerleading squad, so that was kind of a little niche in and of itself, and that would’ve gotten you involved in some other things. So, I ended up meeting my future husband, and we became a ticket item. And so, it was just kind of, what I saw was pretty much the norm. Now, I can’t say that I ever had anyone say anything ugly to me while I was here. My experiences were much uglier way before I came here, but I do know people who graduated from here who spent the whole four years here, where the experience was very ugly. But I do know, like I said, my girlfriend, she and I came here, and we did not see each other ever. And then, even among her, there were three of us that came together; and she was pretty attractive, came from a pretty well to do family, was





able to get into the sorority of choice that she wanted to be in. My other girlfriend not quite as attractive, lot more money, was not able to get into that same sorority. And I remember that. I’m thinking, “Oh! That’s got to be horrible!” So, you know, discrimination does not know racial boundaries and things like that.

When people want to single you out and put you aside, race is one of the most visible things, but it’s just not limited to that, and I think the first time she saw herself feeling some of the same kind of things that other people probably have felt most of their lives; her family, her family name, her money, none of that. She wasn’t blessed with the looks, so you talking about one of those things that you can’t do a thing about. It’s like, you can’t change your gender, you can’t change your race; she couldn’t change the way she looked. She didn’t get into that sorority. I remember that vividly. Vividly, because she was crushed. Absolutely crushed. Absolutely crushed. I remember when that happened. And for me, it wasn’t even, I couldn’t even go to the sorority, much less have an opportunity to get in. Now, has she become—I’ve never asked her, and I’ve never had a chance to sit down and talk to them about this, to ask them did that make them more tolerant than people who did not look like themselves, because of that experience. I would think for her it probably did, the one who did not get in.

Sometimes, you have to have those things smack you in the face before—. So I, the University of Florida, as far as having a degree from here has been great for me. I think that I have been great for the University of Florida; unfortunately I didn’t experience some of the ugliness that people have spoken about, but I do obviously know that probably I was spared some of that because, you know, I





was over here in this little vacuum by myself. Or, with other people that looked like myself. As a matter of fact I had a roommate here, she was from—Ecuador? Venezuela? And it was, “Do you speak English?” “Yes, no problem. No problem.” Everything was no problem. It turned out, she didn’t speak English very well at all. So we were up at night, and I was saying, “Eyebrow. Eyebrow. Eyebrow.” You know, “Nose. Nose. Ears. Ears.” Because they had been coming to the States, for years but they always stayed in the same environment, where everybody spoke Spanish. And the only time they spoke English was in school.

So, that was a good experience as well. So my experiences here were very good.

	G:	Sounds like they were already very diverse.



	B:	Yes, and I think having been thrust in that environment that I was thrust in at an early age kind of—I was probably prepared for the worst. But the worst did not rear its ugly head when I was here in Florida, for me, personally. I had more of that when I was at the community college at the beginning, when I had a professor say to me, “Oh, you’re not going to make it here.” And I can’t remember that person’s name, I just remember that. And I remember not getting upset, I just went to the next area. We were in the registration line, because that was again at a time when they didn’t want African Americans there, or anyone who didn’t look like the mainstream. That, he had his goal in life, and I had mine. His goal in life was to keep me oppressed, and mine was to ensure that he did not do that.

	G:	Sounds like you were very successful!





	B:	I was, I was. Yeah.



	G:	Okay, well, I think we can go ahead and finish up. Thank you again for sitting here and talking to me.

	B:	It’s been my pleasure.



	G:	It’s been very interesting. And is there anything else you’d like to add before we go ahead and say goodbye?

	B:	Well, I would like to come back at some point and see that that history that is missing has somehow been captured, and hopefully these oral interviews are going to help to do some of that. And now that I’m retired, in addition to being an avid supporter of the Gator Nation, I’m going to get involved with the Gator Nation now, because I have some time to do that. And I’ve been looking for a cause that I can get behind. The children are our future, and I want to make sure that the numbers grow for people who look like myself. And just so that children in general have an opportunity to go to school, because it is just—I never thought that I would see where we would be in this kind of economic recession. You know, when you grow up poor, as I did, you’re always frugal anyway, so you never knew where the extra money was going to come from. So, you weren’t spendthrift and things like that. So, for me the recession has not been that difficult in the way of my lifestyle, because we’ve always lived a frugal lifestyle, even though the military afforded my husband and I an opportunity to be fully retired for the last four years. Not to have to work unless we just want to get a job. And we live very, very comfortably. But I did not think that I would have seen that in my lifetime, but growing up the way that I did, for me it’s kind of





transparent. But for other people who you know were in big-time jobs, and making lots and lots of money, and now they don’t know what they’re going to do. And I have some of that in my neighborhood: “For Sale” signs, and foreclosures. And the people who the lenders let buy houses who just should not have. It’s just horrible. So, I do want to, again, come back and see where the unwritten history has been captured, and we that forgotten few, or those of us who were invisible, become visible and take our historic place. And the other thing is, University of Florida was a great experience for me. I think that it has, was probably a good part of my success. Chipola built my foundation, but the University of Florida as a flagship university certainly did not hurt me as I was growing up during my career.

	G:	Great. Okay, well thank you very much.



	B:	All of that is going to be captured on this? [Laughter]



	G:	All of it. And then it’ll be transcribed at some point, it’ll be typed up. And since this is part of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, they’re finding recently, over the past year or two, it’s been a big push to find a way to make these histories available on the Internet, digitally, everything from podcasting to new documentaries. So, I think that an oral history like this and the ones being conducted today are going to go probably a long way in helping address that deficit. Again, I think your story will be very important in the sense that it’s not a common or a shared one. You had a unique experience.

	B:	I did! I did.





	G:	And so, those unique experiences are always—that’s how we can flush out the complexity, and how dynamic a place like this has always been. And you know, while it is important to think of things like the Gator Nation, concepts like that, I think it’s very important to remember that the Gator Nation has always been very dynamic, and very—especially over the past twenty or thirty years, very diverse.

	B:	I mean, we’ve come up with the “Gator Nation,” but it’s always been. The Nation has always been here. But whoever came up with that concept, that was a great marketing ploy. So, whoever came up with that did a great job! [Laughter] You know, it’s kind of like you sit around, and—it’s the Snapple commercial, and it’s already supposed to be best thing ever, and they’re around the table trying to, “How do you make a—?” And the guy says, “You know, the best thing on earth has just gotten better.” [Laughter] Something as simple as that! So you know, the Gators are already great, and when we became the Gator Nation, we are now significantly great. Yeah.

	G:	Yeah, and I think it’s true. You can look at what UF’s doing, and every avenue, every discipline, it’s just becoming top.

	B:	And there is a definite sense of pride. You know I have my little rivalry, and it’s all in fun, because I want children to go to school. I want them to get an education. And it matters not to me where they go, as long as they go and they do well. You know, obviously I would tell them the school of choice would be University of Florida. However, everybody cannot do that, so. And I understand.

	G:	Right. Okay, well, thank you very much. B:	Thank you!





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, September 29, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 23, 2017

	Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019