AAHP 153; Baines; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 153 Anna Baines

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on December 22, 2010 1 hour, 6 minutes | 24 pages



Abstract: Annabelle Williams Baines was born and raised in West Palm Beach, Florida, where she attended Industrial High School. She talks about what she remembers about the community from her youth, including local businesses, and the dynamics of her household in terms of chores and activities. She also describes her parents and the role of her church in her life. She recalls that her favorite teacher, Mr. Stevens was an activist in an early era, in that he was fired for standing up for the rights of Black teachers. She talks about some of the local organizations and personalities, and discusses the NAACP activity in the area.





[Keywords: African American History; Palm Beach County, Florida; Industrial High School]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 153

Interviewee: Anna Baines Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: December 22, 2010



	W:	It is December 22, 2010. This is Marna Weston. Mrs. Baines thank you very much for having me and my mom here in your home letting us speak with you. Could you please state your full and complete name?

B: I’m Annabelle Williams-Baines. W:  And what is your date of birth? B:  May 20, 1926.

W:   And where were you born?



B:  Right here in West Palm Beach, Florida. W:  Were you born at home or at a hospital? B:  At home.

W:   Are you aware of who was the midwife assisting your mother with birth?



	B:	I really don’t know. I think Dr. Thompson. I’m trying to think . . . so long ago I can’t recall his name. But there were like three doctors, but I never heard any mention of the fact that anything other than a midwife would have helped with my delivery.

	W:	May I ask you about your mother and father, what were their names? B:	My mother was Josephine Williams and my father was Arthur Williams. W:	Where were they from?

	B:	Georgia. It’ll come to me, what part of Georgia they were from. But basically almost all of their time was here, too, in West Palm Beach.

	W:	Do you recall your mother and father’s date of birth?



	B:	My father was born in 1899 and my mother must’ve been born in 1902 I think.







	W:	On your mother’s side of the family can you tell me about your grandparents, your grandmother and grandfather on your mother’s side?

	B:	My grandmother on my mother’s side was Estelle Smith. I don’t know she lived most of her life in Winter Haven, Florida. I don’t know that she was born there. I only heard talk of my grandfather on either side. My grandmother on my father’s side was Ophelia Parrish and she started off in a little place called Lacoochee, Florida. That’s a little railroad town over on the West Coast.

	W:	Lacoochee?



	B:	Yes.



	W:	What do you know about your great-grandparents, the parents of your grandmothers? Do you have any memories of them?

	B:	No.



	W:	Do you have brothers and sisters?



	B:	Sisters are deceased and my brother. W:	I’m very sorry. What were their names?

	B:	My sister older was Ruth and my younger sister was Jonnie-Dell Littles. My brother was Arthur Williams.

	W:	They were all also residing here in West Palm Beach?



	B:	Yes—no, my older sister Ruth lived in Elizabeth, New Jersey. Jonnie-Dell and Arthur as we called him, Butch, he lived right here. He had a son Arthur who is living here now in West Palm Beach. He’s been in and out of the city, but he’s here now in West Palm Beach.

	W:	Where did you and your parents live when you were growing up?







	B:	My parents and I lived in that house right next door to me from the time I was ten years old.

	W:	So you’ve seen this neighborhood change a good deal? B:	Drastically.

	W:	How would you characterize the difference between when you were growing up and now?

	B:	When I was growing up, we had like what—Mrs. Clinton thought she started what takes a village, well we had a village honestly. Now basically almost every area that I know that’s not over in Westwood is almost transient. People just in and out. We used to talk about the older people, we are the older people. Their children just didn’t keep up with the property and houses and whatever. Things just went down until finally it just deteriorated until we have almost a transient area. Almost everywhere I know in this area, except for the people who moved out and moved over into the Westwood area.

	W:	Do you know your neighbors? Do you interact with them? B:	No.

W:  But at one point when you were growing up, you would’ve known all your neighbors.

B:  Absolutely. Neighbors weren’t just the people who lived next door to you. They were people who lived blocks around you. Everybody knew everybody. It’s sad really to see an area just go down because there was just no interest.

W:  Would you say that you had a happy childhood? B:  Very, very happy childhood.







	W:	What kinds of things did you do as child?



	B:	My nephew carried me Sunday, looking at the lights in the city, you know how people decorate their houses. My nephew said he was up about like 5:30.

Nobody’s on the street. No children. You don’t have anybody going to school that done got up about 5:00 and got on the bus and went twenty miles to another school. Sometimes I look out my window at the two or three children in this neighborhood who go to school and watch them going up the hill. Going to school. When I was growing up, it was almost—well, the Odom’s lived right across the street from me and they must have had about eight children. The Hamilton’s were right here across from me with two children. It was just like everybody really belonged in one house the way we interacted in and out of each other’s homes. We went to the movies, we went to the basketball games that were in the auditorium at Industrial High at that time. Children had birthday parties. It was just wonderful. Like you said, we didn’t have that much, but we didn’t know we didn’t have that much. Everybody was like on the same level.

	W:	Did you have chores? B:	Yes.

	W:	What were your chores?



	B:	My chores weren’t that many because there was just me and my older sister.



She took on most of the chores other than washing dishes and sweeping off the porch. My father was a gardener, so we always had a nice yard. So I wasn’t in that group that swept the sand, they would keep the yard neat. There was laundry and people had four and five lines in their yards where clothes would







hang. That were so white if the wind was blowing you could hardly see them. And ironing. People did laundry for a living. We used to walk to Palm Beach to deliver laundry sometimes for the people that came over and brought their laundry.

Once it was done then they had to take it back.



	W:	All the way to Palm Beach?



	B:	All the way to Palm Beach. It was just like walking from here up the hill. You didn’t think anything of a walk like that across the bridge.

	W:	You just did it. B:	You just did it.

	W:	So you would laugh and talk on the way.



	B:	All the way and you would be there before you knew it and be back home. I was thinkin’, I got a letter from an organization called The Lighthouse. The girl who got me started with that was one of the teachers at Palmview. She was married to the son of a man who owned Hudgins Fish Market.

	W:	What was her name?



	B:	Her name was Carol. And Hudgins Fish Market used to supply all of the backbones at that time we didn’t know the term then. They were filleting. And all the fish backbones and things they didn’t use, heads, were put out back in boxes. Blacks went over there and got food like that. We just had a good time.

	W:	Where was Hudgins Fish Market?



	B:	The Fish Market was right at the foot of the bridge at 5th or 6th Street and Dixie.



For years that was Hudgins Fish Market.







	W:	Were there places when you were growing up as a child that you knew it was safe to go to where everybody was, and also places where you knew you should not go to? When you were growing up.

B:  Well, in the neighborhood that didn’t just include you next door neighbor. There were places when we were children that you wouldn’t think of going to like bars. Like the Sunset, which got to be one of the places that we went.

W:   It was on 7th Street?



B:  No, that was on 8th and Henrietta. Then at the corner of 10th and Tamarind, there was a restaurant called the Plantation. You couldn’t have found a nicer place, the atmosphere, the food, everything was just great.

W:  Was that on the same side of the street as Hamburger Heaven where that used to be, or the other side of the street?

B:  No, it was on the east side where Hamburger Heaven. W:  Was it the same building?

B:  Not that same building, no that building isn’t there anymore. It was a two-story building at that time.

W:  What was so great about The Plantation Restaurant? B:   Well for one thing the lady who owned it.

W:   What was her name?



	B:	Mrs. Stokes. I don’t remember Mrs. Stokes’s first name. She was just a wonderful person, personable. Just knew how to treat people. She believed in ambiance. This is where you got dressed up when you went to dinner, or had a party or whatever. The food was excellent. We used to have, I can’t remember







what it used to be before it was Dyson’s Drug Store. At the corner of 3rd and Rosemary, which used to be a parlor that really used to be the Dixie Theatre. We had two theatres.

	W:	I remember the theatre. I used to get my haircut down at Scooter’s down there. B:	Yes, there was Alfred’s Hotdog Stand, and like I said, Harvey’s Barbecue.

	W:	So that was the business district then?



	B:	Everything that Blacks needed honestly was in there. We went to Clematis, but we didn’t have to. I mean everything. They had people who owned everything. There were doctors and dentists in that area. There was a supermarket.

	W:	What was the name of the supermarket?



	B:	The name of the supermarket was Robison’s Market. Mr. Robinson was from the 15th and Division, across the street from Dr. Terrell. You remember the dentist Dr. Terrell? Dr. Smith lived right here on the next block, 10th Street.

	W:	Dr. Robert Smith?



	B:	Yes. We had a hat shop where they made hats. We had Black Mack’s restaurant at the corner of 5th and Rosemary. And at one time Ethel Ham, the Ham family was from 6th Street. She had a dress shop at the corner of, in fact, right across from the Grand Theatre.

	W:	Where was the Grand Theatre located?



	B:	I’m trying to get it straight now. Right where you were talking about getting your haircut at Scooter’s, that was across from the Grand Theatre. The Dixie Theatre was a block south of that on the same side of the street.

	W:	So these were two Black theatres?







	B:	Two Black theatres, yes.



	W:	And what kinds of shows did you see there?



	B:	We saw mostly cowboys at that time, which was what most of us were interested in. Seem like all the parents were cowboy lovers also, so this is what we went to see. And children’s movies. I think the first time when the 10 Commandments came out, the Grand Theatre is where we went to see that.

	W:	I remember my dad taking me on Saturdays to get my hair cut down on Rosemary and there were still some shops and businesses, but at that time it didn’t seem very vibrant. About when was it that it went from being a central place that Blacks would shop? Was it when the mall was built? When did the shops move out of that area?

	B:	Basically, the shops moved out of that area just about the time the mall was being built.

	W:	So early [19]70s?



	B:	Early. Like I said, everything we wanted was right in our area. We were almost self-sufficient as far as material things. Naturally, we had churches and churches. Tabernacle on almost every other block, there was a church. Tabernacle started down on Clematis, I think. The next churches were on 3rd Street like Friendship, and the Watchet Baptists and then up to St. Patrick’s Episcopal Church, and Payne’s Chapel, New Bethel. These were just in this particular area. Naturally there were a lot of others over in Pleasant City.

	W:	So the church was very important for you growing up? B:	After home church was very important.







	W:	Do you have a home church membership now? And how long have you been at that church?

	B:	I tell people all the time I was figuratively born in Tabernacle. That’s where my membership has been up to this time.

	W:	That’s 8th Street and Division Avenue? B:	8th and Division.

	W:	You can see it from almost anywhere in West Palm Beach, that’s the high ground. What is it about Tabernacle that has kept your membership there?

	B:	My father was superintendent of the Sunday school there for 34 years. There was Sunday school and church, and in the evening BYPU and church again. This is where you met your friends, it was almost like play time. There was Knowles Drug Store directly south of Tabernacle. We used to congregate there before church and after church. Like in the evening before you went to BYP you would go there and spend your church money to buy sodas and cookies and things, and just have a good time.

	W:	What was the name of that drug store?



	B:	It was Knowles. K-N-O-W-L-E-S. That was there forever.



	W:	Now you said BYPU. I remember at Tabernacle going to the BTU on Sunday evenings.

	B:	Well before that it was the Baptist and the Y was for Young People’s Union. Then they shortened it to BTU. At that time also when I was growing up, we had conventions. They had delegates from the Sunday school and BYPU who went to these conventions and learned a lot about church service, and just had a good







time. There were people who were almost—we used to call most of our mother’s friends Aunt Mary and Aunt Jonnie, like really an extension of your own family.

The ties between those people and the things they taught, and the things we did at church has really kept my membership. I tell them all the time I used to naturally, go to Sunday school every Sunday. When I grew up, I taught Sunday school. I have sung in every choir in that church. I just enjoyed being a part of a Christian family.

	W:	Do you feel that gave you leadership training growing up? B:	I really do.

	W:	What is your definition of leadership?



	B:	I think really, leadership has to do with being behind and pushing. Because when you look at leaders, they not people who actually taught you. Like I told you about that citizenship thing that comes from seeing the kind of lives that people lived who were influential in their community, not just in their home but in the lives of other people, in their work. People who were able to inspire. This is what I think a lot about leadership really is.

	W:	Would your share that poem again that you shared with me?



	B:	Yes, it’s My Character. And it says: “My character you cannot see. It’s what I am inside of me. The way I act, my manners too, help people judge the things I do.” I taught that to my children for years and years and years. As I said, here comes a lady whose child who I probably taught in the [19]50s, and she refers to that poem in 2000s.







	W:	Let’s talk about education for a little bit. What is your earliest memory personally of education that helped to shape you?

	B:	My earliest memory of education was just liking school. I had a sister who was in school with me and she loved it too. I wasn’t really into that much home economics and music and stuff like that. The interests really that the teachers had in the children. You wouldn’t think anything at that time, coming home from school and seeing a teacher to your house. Good news or bad news. Sometimes mostly bad news. As far back as I can remember I have just always liked school.

	W:	Who was your favorite teacher?



	B:	My favorite teacher in high school I really believe was a man named Mr. Stevens.



Mr. Stevens was, I don’t know what grade Mr. Stevens taught but they were having a lot of confusion about teacher pay because the White teachers were making more than Black teachers. Mr. Stevens I guess would’ve been called an activist at that time because he lost his job here in West Palm Beach because he was standing up for the Black teachers in the areas where we had school. He was a good teacher. I was really impressed by him but I really did had a lot of good teachers.

	W:	Mr. Stevens, do you remember his full name?



	B:	Charles. And you know, Mr. Stevens had a niece who wrote a column for the Palm Beach Post. She wrote under the name of Stevens Jefferson. And Jefferson was her married name. She used to write lovely articles in the newspaper.

	W:	He was a teacher at Industrial High School?







	B:	Yes he was a teacher at Industrial High School.



	W:	You were about to mention something about another teacher, sorry that I cut you off.

	B:	Mrs. Fluellen. You remember Fluellen’s drug store? It’s still a store. It’s right at the corner of Palm Beach Lakes and Sapodilla, where the traffic light is. That orange color is, that used to be Fluellan’s drug store.

	W:	What was her first name? B:	Ines.

	W:	Ines Fluellen?



	B:	We just had good teachers. They weren’t just good teachers who taught you.



There was Mrs. Gertrude Butzy, Moses Miles. I think Mr. Miles is a minister now in Tallahassee. He stayed here for several years. The Principals: Mr. Murray.

You remember Cecil?



	W:	Any principal before U.B. Kinsey would probably be hard for me to remember, but I remember him.

	B:	You would remember him.



	W:	Cecil Murray what school was he the principal at?



	B:	No Cecil Murray’s daddy was principal back in the [19]40s. The first principal went to Roosevelt, I can’t recall his name. Maybe later, immersed in one of those moments.

	W:	Do you remember where you first went to elementary school? What the name of the school was?







	B:	The first school I went to was Industrial High School. And Industrial High School started in the basement of Tabernacle Baptist Church. That was where the first school was.

	W:	It was just K-12, you started there and you finished there? B:	No, I don’t really remember what grades to tell you the truth. [Break in interview]

	W:	Okay, we’re back. We took a little rest, went outside to take some pictures. And I’m speaking with Mrs. Annabelle Baines in her home in West Palm Beach, Florida. I have not mentioned this before, but Mrs. Baines was my second grade teacher at Palm View Elementary. So Mrs. Baines perhaps if there is something kind that you would say at this point about me. [Laughing]

	B:	Even before I knew what you were going to do. Remember I told you that I’m sure that I guided a lot but you were a wonderful student. Just receptive to learning. You know how they talk about that sponge? You were like that, a wonderful student.

	W:	Thank you. You inspired me in so many days. I still carry it on as I share with my students today some of the things you taught me in the classroom.

	B:	That makes me feel so good.



	W:	Now we can’t talk about Palmview Elementary unless we talk about its progression to U. B. Kinsey Palmview Elementary which includes U.B. Kinsey the man.

	B:	Well, U.B. Kinsey the man was really an educator. He just believed so much in children and in the learning process. He stayed on teachers, trying to get the best







teachers, trying to help the teachers that he had become even better through education. All the kinds of things that he brought into the schools for better learning. He was just, like I said, an educator.

	W:	I remember he was so supportive to the teachers.



	B:	He was very supportive to the teachers. And he was really what could be called a role model. He really inspired children how to be clean. He turned Palmview into one of the cleanest schools anywhere you could find. He dressed the part.

	W:	Always a suit, every day.



	B:	Every day and tried to get the children to emulate him, not as far as that kind of dressing, but shirts.

	W:	When I went to his house he was wearing a suit.



	B:	Absolutely. He would be in the yard not in a jacket, but dressed and he was out there mowing the lawn, whatever. It was just something that he always did. It wasn’t just something that—He kept his home like he kept the school. What we hoped would be an inspiration, I can’t even imagine him now seeing these boys with no belts.

	W:	He wouldn’t allow that. Mr. Kinsey would not have allowed that. There’s no way. B:	Not ever would you have seen anything like that in his presence.

	W:	How did you become a teacher at Palmview?



	B:	As I said, I was working as secretary at Palmview. When the school moved out there was an opening at Palmview and I went into the classroom at that time.

	W:	How did you get assigned the subjects that you taught?







	B:	In elementary school you taught everything. And then after, it must’ve been 1983, I left the classroom to become a primary resource teacher. I had quite a bit of training for that.

	W:	What was the difference between that and being in the classroom?



	B:	The difference was you basically taught teachers rather than students. Now if a teacher had two, three, four children who were in need of extra instruction in reading or math then I helped with students like that. Basically I did workshops to show the teachers how to teach in certain areas. I thoroughly enjoyed that.

	W:	Are you involved or were you involved in any honorary or sorority or civic organizations?

	B:	Civic organizations was more like the Voter’s League or just membership in the NAACP and that’s about it. No sororities as far as way back in the day, but right now I’m a member of the national teacher organization, Phi Delta Kappa. We do a lot with education and children like scholarships and visits to schools on certain holidays, working with projects with children, trying to inspire them to want to do things. Everything now is like give back and this is what we should do. It had to be somebody somewhere that inspired you to do something that would keep you interested enough to be able to look back and see that you really need to reach back and help pull somebody else up.

	W:	Do you have any memories of Mr. Leander Curtsy?



	B:	Mr. Curtsy was a great band leader. He taught music and I think that’s all I ever knew him to teach. We had one fantastic band. He led the band, they did concerts and parades. He was just an excellent music instructor. With Roosevelt,







where he basically did his work, was on Fifteenth Street. All the things he participated in and the kind of band leader he was they agreed to name a street after him. Fifteenth Street goes from Australia over to the Dixie. That’s Curtsy Street. He had some sons who were also interested in music. I don’t know that any of them ever taught music. A lovely wife, just a nice family person. Mr. Curtsy was an excellent music instructor.

	W:	Who were some of the staff and other teachers or just members of the Palmview community that you can remember?

	B:	Teachers?



	W:	Teachers, librarians, staff, kitchen members.



	B:	Johnnie Long, they named a library at U.B. Kinsey Palmview after her a few years ago. You just couldn’t find a better library. All the things she did for the children were just wonderful. Then there was Johnnie-Dell Littles who stayed forever as the cafeteria manager until she became ill. There was Mrs. Fluellen Gertrude Butzy, Gertrude Hanford, Charles Munnings. I’ve named some others before

	W:	Why do you think that Mr. Kinsey selected those people and had them at his school?

	B:	Mr. Kinsey had a choice really because when the school went from Palmview to Roosevelt, he had a choice of retaining the teachers that he had or bringing in other teachers. Having worked with those teachers even as a teacher in the school, he felt those were the teachers who would make the best progression







learning wise as far as teaching and I think these are the kinds of people he really brought in and kept.

	W:	You stayed at that school the entire time? B:	I stayed at the school forever.

	W:	42 years.



	B:	42 years of service plus my first through twelfth grade.



	W:	Did you ever think of going anywhere else? That’s over 50 years—54 years of the same place.

	B:	Never. When I had retired they couldn’t believe that I had been teaching for 42 years and gone to school.

	W:	And now you live down the street, had always lived down the street from there. Why was this part of your education and career and community so important for you to remain here?

	B:	I’m still here because my father lived a long time and he was right next door.



When I got married I stayed two years in Rivera and then we built some apartments that are behind my house.

	W:	Your husband William? I’m sorry I didn’t even think to ask you about him. Would you like to talk about him for a little bit? How did you all meet?

	B:	He is deceased. We met actually, at a picnic. We seemed to like a lot of the same things, dancing. He loved fishing and golfing. He had a boat. He was one of the persons who started what was—Roosevelt Elementary had a group called the Boosters Club. They did all kinds of wonderful things for the children, especially those who were in sports like football and golf. These were the kinds







of things that we did together. I went on the golf course once, which showed me that was not a fun thing that I wanted to do. I would fish sometimes with him from the shore, but never in a boat. He was always on a boat, loved to fish.

	W:	Where was he originally from?



	B:	He was originally from Wilson, North Carolina. I stay in touch with his family in Wilson. He was a lovely person. Most people that you would ever speak to about him will tell you the same thing about him. He loved people and basically people just took to him.

	W:	When did he pass away? B:	He passed away in [20]03.

	W:	Very sorry. You all were married for how long? B:	We were married for 41 years.

	W:	That’s a long time to spend with one person. How would you describe, if you could just put it in a sentence or two, your life together?

	B:	Our life together was good, because when you think about the ups and downs that go along with being married for 41 years, it takes a lot of work and we worked at it.

	W:	You mentioned that you were active with the NAACP. B:	As I said, just membership.

	W:	What were some of the significant things that the NAACP drew attention to?



	B:	Well, the voter’s league and they still have—I guess I talked about it recently because of Obama. We used to have regular meetings that we would go to, to talk about people. The people who were running for office would come to places







and talk about their plans for the city. It gave the people a chance to get to know them. How much of that they did may leave a lot to be desired but at least they were showing an interest in what we were trying to do. To get over to the other people that we were intelligent human beings who understood about politics, who understood about the people who were running the city and the things they were doing for the good of us as Black people and also those things that were honestly wrong because of prejudice, segregation, that kind of stuff. We lived through an awful lot of that. Some of it hasn’t changed to this day.

	W:	What parts stick out in your mind? The difference before integration and prior to integration.

	B:	I tell people maybe I shouldn’t have because of some of the things I can see now, but at that time, I really did not want us to integrate. That’s just my personal feeling. I think a lot of things happened that showed that that was not the best thing for us. Because they minute clubs, not too many hotels, but restaurants and things opened up and the Blacks leave their own. That’s why you can’t go now and find a nice place that you can go and have dinner. There are some that are really recent, but when things really started moving out, Black people were moving out. That caused a loss for a lot of us. We felt, and when I say we I mean most of the Black teachers in my area, felt that integration—and I take myself personally—I said that integration, educationally, taught me that I was a better teacher than the teachers I knew and I don’t mean just at my school. The interest that Black people had for Black children was not shown that much from White teachers to Black children. I think that caused a lot of what we felt should have







been given to Black children. Just through love, you knows, things that we felt we want that the children had. We used to have pageants and plays, and auditorium activities that the children participated in. We had things like May Day, parents who just cooperated with you in every way you could imagine. As I say Hillary Clinton didn’t start “It Takes a Village,” we lived it. We got too scattered. People that we used to meet up with every day, you didn’t see them for weeks and months because they were just scattered all over everywhere. There was one or two over in this school and one or two over that school. It just seemed to take away from our village.

	W:	I’m going to ask you to make some brief comments on some different individuals and things that have happened. You can give a short answer or you can expound as you will. Martin Luther King.

	B:	Martin Luther King was I think sent to us. I think when we talk about role models, when we talk about motivational people, and when we talk about inspiration you can get some of all of this from Martin Luther King. I think that unless we have done a lot of reading, we only know about some of the big things. Like what he was into when he died, when he was murdered. The things he did that you hear people talk about now that were just smaller things and smaller areas that he worked in, just made him a great person I think.

	W:	How ‘bout Carrie Meeks?



	B:	Carrie Meeks. I figured that I sort of knew her in a sense. She was closer to me in age. I think that she was a very good person to be in politics, just from general







things. I never knew close knit things. And hearing other people talk about her she was a good person, politician.

	W:	Harry Moore.



	B:	Harry Moore. I don’t know Harry Moore.



	W:	Harry Moore was very active in the NAACP and the Progressive Voter’s League. He helped get many African Americans registered to vote in Florida. He and his wife were killed.

	B:	What is the name?



	W:	Harry T. Moore. They were killed on Christmas Day, 1951. Their house was bombed in Mims, Florida. There’s a book by a man named Ben Greene called Before His Time that talks about his life.

	B:	Okay.



	W:	Barack Obama.



	B:	Barack Obama, you know I love him. W:	Were you surprised?

	B:	Shocked.



	W:	Not only did he win, but he won Florida.



	B:	There was a program that I saw on television. I think he is now the White House photographer. He went back to show some pictures and in almost everyone he showed he was not taking Barack Obama. Somehow Barack Obama showed up in the background of the pictures that he took. It was wonderful experience of—I got a stack of papers and pictures and books. My niece who lives in Indianapolis







told me that she wanted me to read a book Obama wrote. I’m trying to think of the name of it.

	W:	The one where he talks about his father?



	B:	He talks about everything. She says that the people who think that he should be up in arms and yelling and shouting, if they had ever read that book about him, they would know that coming from his father this is just a part of him. So she doesn’t think they’ll ever see him do that. I really think number one, I think he’s one of the smartest presidents we’ve ever had. Everybody who has seen him, and we’re talking about like the little children, somebody said at the inauguration, that Black person, not just children, should now feel at least one inch taller. I agree with that. I think he’s a leader. I think he’s a person that you would just want to teach your child to be like. When you see him, as I said, he’s always well- dressed. I don’t know where you could find a better speaker. He’s physical in as much as being as athletic as he is. And I’m just hoping and praying that they will give him a second chance to show how much more he can do than what he’s doing now. I’m hoping that he can get more cooperation from first, his fellow Democrats, and the Republicans.

	W:	How about the First lady, Mrs. Obama?



B:  A girl after my own heart. I think that she is really playing the role of First Lady. She is not in front of him. In some instances behind, but always besides in the things that she promotes. On her own, I think she’s just doing a wonderful job. I just hope that we’ll give him a chance to do. I know we’re just getting to the end of the second year, but I’m still looking for a second term for him.







	W:	I know we’ve talked about it, but just a final thought on U.B. Kinsey, if you’d give a short answer on him.

	B:	Mr. Kinsey was a person that I really admired. I knew him as a friend, I knew him as a principal, and I knew him just as a church member. Just an all-around person. I’ve known Mr. Kinsey for years and years. He’s always inspired me. He has raised a fine family. He has given so much to education that basically all of us know about him, that he was really educationally and intellectually inspirational. We just loved him.

	W:	I like to close every interview by first thanking the person that I spoke with. So thank you Mrs. Baines, for letting me come to your home, and to catch up with you, and speak with you here, right before Christmas. I’ll let you close the interview. If there are any thoughts that you have or maybe something we didn’t touch on or something you want to comment on the interview or any comments you want to make, so when your comments are finished that will conclude our interview.

	B:	Well I would like to say first of all I can’t think of a better person that I would like to be interviewed by than you, Marna. This was just the first hour so naturally we can’t go back and hit everything. I think basically, we got most of this little area that we talked about. I’m just hoping for you all the success in the world. I’m hoping that the projects that you’re working on will come out, as you say Mr.

Kinsey and Barack Obama, these kinds of inspirational persons. You’ve come from a lovely family, I’ve known them forever also. I want to say how much I







admire you. Thanks for coming by and talking to me. Don’t let this be the last time I see you to talk to you about whatever.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette, April 29, 2013



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, November 8, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019