AAHP 695; Lewis and Townsend; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 695 Martin De Porres Lewis and Lily D. Townsend African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ryan Morini on July 8, 2019

1 hours and 14 minute | 40 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Lily D. Townsend talks about her time in segregation, her career, and the influence the church had her life. Townsend talks about how her neighborhood was integrated before integration spread across the state. Although she lived in an integrated neighborhood, when she went to downtown Pensacola she still had to live with segregation and pretending not to know her friends downtown.

Segregation did not stop Townsend from starting a career after college where she was working as a nurse and later became the first Black social worker in Florida. Later in the interview, Townsend talks about how the church was an important aspect of the Pensacola community and that it influenced the schools, community relationships and other aspects. Martin De Porres Lewis talks about how Pensacola differs from the rest of Florida and continues the conversation about how the community in Pensacola has changed. Lewis argues that Pensacola was different than the rest of Florida during Jim Crow because the citizens were immigrants and people of color who could relate. He states that the only reason that Pensacola changed is because white segregationist from Alabama came to Pensacola to enforce Jim Crow. In the conclusion both Lewis and Townsend, talk about the gentrification of Pensacola and how the community has changed for the worse, the only thing that remains unchanged is the church and what it represents to the community.





Keywords: [African American History Project, Joel Buchanan Project, JBA, Pensacola, Catholicism, Civil Rights Movement, Segregation, Florida History]

























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 695

Interviewee: Martin De Porres Lewis and Lily D. Townsend Interviewer: Ryan Morini

Date: July 8, 2019



	M:	So, this Ryan Morini with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is July 8th, 2019 and I’m here in the St. Joes Parish Hall in Pensacola, Florida with— would you like to state your name?

	T:	Lily Townsend.



	M:	And…



	L:	Martin Porres Lewis.



	M:	Thanks for joining today! T:	You’re quite welcome.

	M:	Can I ask your full name?



	T:	Lily Regina Dees Townsend.



	M:	Okay, Dees is the maiden name? T:	Dees is my maiden name yes.

	M:	Okay and can I ask when and where you were born? T:	In Pensacola, May 4th, 1933.

	M:	Okay, do you know if that was at home or at a hospital?



	T:	That was at home because there was no place Afro-Americans mother to go during that time. Their babies were born at home.

	M:	Do you know who the midwife was?



	T:	There wasn’t a midwife, if we were fortunate. My paternal grandmother worked for a physician and so he delivered my brother and sister and I but at home.

	M:	Do you know that physician’s name? T:	Dr. Ames, I don’t know his first name.







M:



T:



M:

Dr. Ames, okay and so your grandmother worked for him? My paternal grandmother worked for him.

May I ask her name?

T:

Mary Dees.

M:

Mary Dees, okay. What was the work that she was doing?

T:

She was a domestic worker.

M:

Okay and we can ask your parents’ names?

T:

My parents?

M:

Yes.

T:

My father was Floyd Dees

M:

Okay.

T:

And my mother was Almena Brown Dees, A-L-M-E-N-A, A-L

M:

Oh A-L, okay.

T:

M-E-N-A.

M:

N-E-N-A.

T:

No, I’ll correct it afterwards.

M:

[Laughter] One more time.

T:

A-L-M-E-N-A.

M:

M-E-N-A, Almena.

T:

Brown.

M:

Yes.

T:

Dees.

M:

Okay and so were your parents both from Pensacola?





	T:	They were from Pensacola, yes.



	M:	Okay and where about [inaudible 02:46]. T:	My mother was from the Tan Yard.

	M:	Okay.



	T:	And my father—I don’t know what—they referred to that area as Bushes Hill, where he lived.

	M:	Okay.



	T:	That’s out by Gonzales and E. L:	The water tower.

	T:	Huh?



	L:	The water tower.



	T:	A little below the water tower and it was called Bushes Hill. M:	Okay, but it’s not known that way anymore?

	T:	Oh no.



	M:	Okay.



	T:	Young people wouldn’t even know what I was talking about if I said that. M:	Okay and were their parents also from Pensacola?

	T:	No, my mother has a very interesting history. My mother’s mother was a product of a slave, the slave was Josephine Taylor Whittington and Josephine was married to a Caucasian male named Jacob Whittington and they married during Reconstruction and they married in Montgomery, Alabama. Okay Jake was wealthy apparently but he had an alcoholic problem so he didn’t retain money and they had, I think it was eleven children and the help in the household heard





Jake’s family decide they were going to take the children, all the children that look Caucasian they were gonna take. They were gonna leave two of them that looked non-Caucasian with my great-grandmother and when she told this, she got a horse and buggy so the story goes, came from Montgomery to Pensacola because her mother had then settled in Pensacola. Her mother was Mireya Taylor and she settled on what is now, Intimacy at Club Street, right down by the Corrine Jones Park there, in that area.

	M:	Okay, wow that is quite a history.



	T:	Yeah that’s quite interesting. Anyway one of her daughters was my grandmother Lily, her daughter Lily Whittington was my grandmother.

	M:	Okay, so that’s the other grandmother then, well first of all did your mother pass that history down to you or how did you learn that?

	T:	Yes.



	M:	Okay so that was—what did your parents do for a living if I can ask?



	T:	My father originally was a waiter and when employment opened at the naval air station, he worked down there, he worked as aircraft mechanic at the Navy Yard. My mom didn’t work out of the house.

	M:	Okay, did your father have any training for the job or was just—? T:	On the job training.

	M:	Okay so they just—



	T:	At the base they—yeah they trained him at the base.



	M:	Okay, okay, did he ever talk about his experiences working down there?





	T:	No, my father didn’t talk very much. There was segregation even on the base and my husband would be a good interviewer for that because the first E.E.O. [Equal Employment Opportunity] Officer down at the base to help Black people move up from positions other than aircraft mechanic.

	M:	Wow, when did he start that position? T:	My husband?

	M:	Yeah.



	T:	Let me see if I can remember the date, it was in the [19]60s, must have been about [19]65, [19]66.

	M:	Okay, so getting back to you growing up, which school did you go to? T:	St. Joseph.

	M:	St. Joseph.



	T:	I went here at this school, I came here when they opened the school, I was in the third grade then and you know they didn’t have an age requirement, I had gone to kindergarten and the nuns did what they wanted, they put me in the third grade and I was six years old in the third grade so that made me finish high school very early, but I graduated from high school right here at St. Joseph. Very early, I had just turned sixteen when I graduated.

	M:	Wow, what was the school like here? I mean what would you…



	T:	Well, to me it was wonderful and we were Catholic and the nuns were here so we thought that was the icing on the cake.

	M:	Did anyone particularly stand out to you here as a mentor, as a teacher or as any?





	T:	Well, my favorite was Sister Margaret. M:	Okay, why? Anything in particular?

	T:	Well, she made me interested in school and studying and reading. She encouraged that.

	M:	Did you have a favorite subject or favorite…?



	T:	It would have been Literature and English but Science was a good subject because I always wanted to be a nurse and when I finished high school we were searching for places where I could go to school. My mother, like I said we were Catholic family, she wanted us to go to Catholic schools if possible. I went, my brother did not. I started at Xavier University in New Orleans but Xavier did not have a nursing program and I was too young to get into a nursing program at that time. So, I only went to Xavier for freshmen year, after that I transferred to St.

Mary’s in St. Louis and that was affiliate school of St. Louis University and St. Louis was very segregated also. They accepted the girls into the two programs, the Caucasian girls lived in St. Mary’s on Clayton Road and the Afro-Americans girls at St. Mary’s on Papen Road. We all went to classes at the same place, at St. Louis University and took the same classes, but after class we get on the street car and come to our separate dorms.

	M:	Was that strange for you at that time?



	T:	No, that was the way of life so you didn’t…you know you did what you had to do with it.

	M:	And to back track quickly, what was segregation like here when you were growing up in Pensacola?





	T:	It was rampant [Laughter], there was no integration at that time but the name of what we lived in the Tan Yard, we lived in the Tan Yard on Government Street between D and E and that block was integrated before integration because our house was the third from the corner and the next four houses or five houses Caucasians lived in the them. Caucasians lived across the street and Caucasians lived on the other side of our house and well Caucasians lived on the corner originally and then there were people who were fair skinned who lived down there, they were referred to as Creoles, they lived around in that area too.

	M:	And did everyone interact?



	T:	Oh yeah, my best friend was Betty Lou Carmelo that lived next door to me when I was coming up. I remember her name very well.

	M:	And so, was the segregation different when you moved to other places like once you got to—?

	T:	No.



	M:	It seemed basically the same.



	T:	It was separation of the races wherever you went. M:	Just the same thing every time.

	T:	Mhmm.



	M:	Okay, and so when you went to Xavier was that first time leaving Pensacola? T:	Oh yes, definitely.

	M:	So that was?



	T:	That was a traumatic thing for me to leave. I went on the train and my parents shipped me to Flomaton, Alabama is where the train station was to put me on





the train to go to New Orleans and I rode on a segregated coach, of course, to New Orleans. When I got to the train station I called a bus, I think, to Xavier University, they were meeting students but New Orleans was highly segregated too at that time.

	M:	And that’s the first time on your own?



	T:	Yeah and I was extremely young, I didn’t know what to do, my social skills were very lacking because I had never been away from my parents but it was a Catholic school so the rules and regulations kept me in the dorm.

	M:	So, how did you adjust? Was there anything that kind of helped you get used to it or was it just sort of…?

	T:	Well there were two other students from my class here at St. Josephs that went to Xavier too so that helped.

	M:	So, you said you knew you wanted to go into nursing, was there a reason why?



Is there some moment—?



	T:	I was just always fascinated with nursing and always said I wanted to be a nurse. M:	Okay, so that was just…

	T:	That was part of the plan. M:	Just there, okay.

	T:	Yeah.



	M:	So, what were your experiences like at St. Mary’s in terms of the education part of it?

	T:	Oh, it was excellent! The education, I think, very very good because after you finished school you had to take pass a board in order to work as an RN





[Registered Nurse] and I came to Florida and a lot of time the students had to take it several time. Based on the education that I got there I only took the board one time and at that time my school in Pediatrics was the highest at that period of time, that people would take it at the same time I did. So, I had good educational background, the nuns prepared you.

	M:	It sounds that way, yeah! So, after you graduated you came back to Florida then is that—?

	T:	Yes I came back to Pensacola, my mother had taken ill but before I came back I applied at a job at Baptist Hospital and the Director of Nursing said Baptist was named Mrs. York and it was not telephone conversations, it was letters. She wrote me back and said they had an opening, “Well Mrs. York didn’t know, wasn’t for me it was St. Mary’s”. She was familiar with Florida A&M [Agricultural and Mechanical University] and Tuskegee and those places but she did not know St. Mary’s so she hired me in the letter and I came home and when I got home the next morning I called her and she told me she was so excited for me to come and it was a job in surgery and so she made an appointment with me the next morning at nine o’clock I went for the interview. She almost dropped her teeth when I walked in because she expecting a Caucasian nurse and of course I did not get the job, she told me the job had just filled before I got there. It wasn’t even a good lie; it was lie but not even a good one.

	M:	I mean how did you feel at that point?



	T:	Well, when you’re young you have confidence in yourself, you say well if you close that door I’ll just get to another door and open it. So, I left and since I was





Catholic and had been with nuns all my life I decided to go Sacred Heart and I went to Scared Heart and I was hired at Scared Heart. That was in—let’s see— third part of 1954, I worked in Pediatrics three to eleven on the evening shift and the lady who was in charge of Peds, I can’t remember her name right now but it was quite exciting. She was a drug abuser and she was caught using the drugs, at that time you didn’t go to jail, you just moved from one institution to the other if you were medical doctors and nurses who got addicted. They just went from this institution to next one to the next one and kept working. So, I had to take her place and work days in Pediatrics and the position became open so I thought that hey I’m eligible for that position but the pediatricians that were there at that time did not want a Afro-American nurse, they stated that to the nuns. So, there was a nursing school at Sacred Heart at that time and graduation was at June so they asked me to maintain that position until June and gave it to a recent graduate that was just coming out of school so I left and went to school. I went to FAM at that time. Only went for some school though.

	M:	What specifically were you studying there?



	T:	I was anything that would lead to a Bachelors in Nursing. M:	Okay, okay, but it was just a summer?

	T:	Just the summer, yes, because I came back—I can’t remember the dates that well—but after that summer I came back home and I was gonna go full time, my parents were going to send me back but I’ll tell you mother was ill so there was a nurse here in town named Mrs. Marella Shelby, and she came to me and asked me what I was going to do because she knew about the job at Sacred Heart and





what had happen. I told her, I was going back to school. She asked me if I would take a test for her, she said the state of Florida had been ordered to hire Black social workers throughout the state and she was looking for somebody to take this test and pass this test because the lady had said Black females or Black males could not pass this test so, it was general test, I took the test and passed the test so then the Department of Public Welfare offered me a job. So, I went to work for them because it more money and it was weekends off, it had a lot of attractions. I worked as a social worker aid to the disabled and aid to the blind, the two medical programs that they had before I started working with children and then later with children.

	M:	What was that work like for you?



	T:	That was good, I enjoyed it. It was home visits but here again segregation was rampant. They had Caucasian social workers and I was the only Black social worker and first of all they tell me, this is what the ladies that became my friends afterwards said, they had a meeting to discuss where my desk was going to be located when I went to work. I could not share a cubicle with any of them, they were trying to find a place to put me and they had hired a young man in the Navy who came through Michigan. So, he said I could share his cube so that’s why I had a desk because none of the Southern gentle ladies wanted me in their office, but it was a good experience and they assigned territories to you. So, I could not see Caucasian families in need, I could only see Black families in need. So, my territory started at Pottery Plant Road which was later changed Fairfield Drive





and went from Pottery Plant Road to the [inaudible 20:41] to the Alabama State line, that way and I saw all the Black people in that area that needed assistance.

	M:	Did you feel like you were able to assist in that capacity?



	T:	Oh yeah! It was an eye opener for me, I learned a lot of things during my period of time at the Department of Welfare. I stayed with them ten years. I eventually went to work as a child welfare worker which was icing on the cake, I thoroughly enjoyed that, that was children who run away and foster children and adoptive children, by that time I was married though.

	M:	I mean was any of that work kind of difficult just to see some of the things you were seeing or was it…?

	T:	No, no, in the medical field, I don’t want to say you get hardened but you don’t get upset with those kinds of circumstances.

	M:	You just kind of deal with them?



	T:	Deal with them and do the best you can.



	M:	Okay, was that a process to get to that point or was that part of your training as you were learning it?

	T:	Well, I think it was part of my training from the nursing really because it was easy for me. I had to learn how to write cases that was new to me but other than that the interaction with people wasn’t difficult.

	M:	So, and you did mention getting married, can I ask how that came about? What happened?

	T:	Well, I married Ronald Townsend on August the 20th, 1955 and we had been dating before that. He was student at Southern University at that time. So, we





decided to get married in August and at that time the draft was in effect, as soon as he finished Southern [University], he was drafted in the army. So, we married in August and he was drafted in November and he was sent to—well first he went to somewhere in North Carolina, I can’t remember of the name of the base then he went to Sam Houston in Texas and then his permanent base was Fort Polk in Louisiana. We thought we were gonna get to see the world but instead we went right back to Louisiana.

	M:	I mean what was that experience like for you?



	T:	That was a very good experience too, I found a job right away because there’s a veterans hospital right near the base in Bunkie, Louisiana which a little town right close to Leesville, the base was at Leesville. We lived in Alexandria which was a larger community and I worked at Bunkie at the Veterans Hospital. That was a good experience.

	M:	Okay, if I can ask, did it take adjusting? It seemed like you usually be living in cities and then you got to that little town, was that…?

	T:	Well, it was Louisiana and I had been to Louisiana so if my husband, his school was in Baton Rouge, I had been to New Orleans, it was like home and it was close to home. Alexandria is not too far and Baton Rouge is not too far from Pensacola, about five or six hours.

	M:	Were you able to visit sometimes? T:	Oh yes, we came back and forth. M:	That does work out pretty well. T:	Worked out well!





	M:	Yeah, okay so how did you end back in Pensacola then?



	T:	Well that was our intention always after he got out of service we were coming back home and the job I had at the Department of Public Welfare was waiting for me. So, I went right back there and he finished an education and for Black males at that time, there were not a lot of opportunities. With college degree they either taught school or worked at the Post Office, so he did a little of both. He worked at the Post Office and at night he taught in the adult program at Washington at night.

	M:	I forgot to ask but looking at the note again, so I mean you were the first social worker—

	T:	I was the first Black social worker from the Department of Public Welfare, yes M:	I mean did you have a sense of that being sort of a groundbreaking moment— T:	No, I was too busy covering my tracks and trying to keep a step ahead

	M:	[Laughter]



	T:	The ladies were not kind, they were not unkind but they were not kind and I was not accepted as part of their group for lunch and other things.

	M:	But you did enjoy the work? T:	Oh yes, I did enjoy the work.

	M:	So, what year did you return to Pensacola? Sorry, like late [19]50s or something like that?

	T:	It was January of 1954, I think, no it was later than that. It was because my son was born in [19]’58 so it was just before that time. We returned about 1957, [19]58.





	M:	So, were you starting to see changes in Pensacola in terms— T:	No.

	M:	—the Civil Rights Movement starts coming in a few years after that. T:	Right it was after that but when I first came home, no.

	M:	Basically the same? T:	Mhmm.

	M:	When did you start to see changes in terms of integration over all in Pensacola? T:	In the [19]60s, the changes start occurring a little bit at a time.

	M:	What did you notice?



	T:	Well, my job experience gave me one change, President John F. Kennedy was elected and he immediately said that there was no such thing as a social worker that just did Black people and a social worker that just did Caucasian people, you did anybody in your area. So, my territory was immediately changed then and anybody within a certain radius was my clients at that time. So, that was the first change and then they hired we’ve always had the base here, they hired some Navy wives who didn’t give a crap what color I was and I became friends with them.

	M:	Did that impact your experiences at all? T:	Oh yeah, it was a kind of whirlwind.

	M:	Did you ever deal with any resistance from White clients who you had to…?



	T:	Oh yes [Laughter] they would—[Laughter] the first one was a funny, he received aid to the blind so he could not see very well and he lived on a trailer and I knocked on his door and welfare workers were very distinguishable because they





gave us a little brown leather notebook and everybody knew that notebook but he could not see. So, when I knocked on the door and I told him, I identified myself and he said, “Oh come in” and then when I came in he said, “Wait a minute, what are you?” I said, I know he didn’t use the term Afro-American, he used the other term, “I know you’re not one of those are you Indian?” And I never answered his question I said, do you want your assistance, we can go through the process and we did but he was not happy that I was not Caucasian and he accepted the fact that maybe I could be Indian.

	M:	Wow, and you had a few of those experiences?



	T:	Oh yeah, you’d have a few experiences, they didn’t want a Black social worker and they would call the office and say that they did not—mind you not these people were on public assistance, had no means of support except a check from the government or the state and they would call and complain not about my work but the very fact that my skin was Black.

	M:	Was that ever stressful for you or was it just—? T:	No, it was funnier than it was stressful

	M:	[Laughter]



	T:	[Laughter]



	M:	Well and if I can ask, so your husband ended up, I would guess around that time becoming the first Black E.E.O. [Equal Employment Opportunity] Officer

	T:	Yeah it was in the [19]60s.



	M:	So, it’s close to that same time period, right? T:	Mhmm.





	M:	What was that experience like for you in terms of being?



	T:	Well, I saw a lot of things and he enjoyed that job so very much and changes were taking place all over. The schools—okay I had another career, I went to the school system after that, I went back to school and got education and by that time I had four children, so I had to find something that was conducive to my children’s hours in school. So, I went to work [inaudible 30:21] county school system and I worked for a few years in [inaudible 30:27] Middle School, which is no longer in existence and from there I went to Pensacola High and I retired at Pensacola as a Health Occupations Teacher.

	M:	How would you describe those experiences?



	T:	By the time I got to the school, they were just normal experiences, no segregation then.

	M:	Well, did you enjoy the work? I mean what was—?



	T:	Oh I thoroughly enjoyed it! I enjoyed working with children, that was one of my preferences pediatrics when I was in nursing and when I work in the Welfare Department, child welfare was my favorite thing and by the time I got to [inaudible 31:05] I was with children again and addition to that I was a mother of four so. I interact well with children.

	M:	Well, that’s excellent, I mean that sounds like a great career. T:	I had a wonderful career.

	M:	Is there anything you’d say was the most rewarding or meaningful part of the work for you?





	T:	Of course the hands on nursing was the best part and the education, I taught children health careers so if they were interested in a health career they came to my class and that was very good and I would take them to the hospitals and other places ever other day or sometimes everyday so they would get introduced to that kind of work and that was very rewarding too.

	M:	So, there was a lot of interest in it?



	T:	Oh yes and you know kids always want to be a doctor and a nurse at that time they did, there are a lot of other avenues now. Back when I first started that was the ultimate.

	M:	Yeah, that makes sense I guess I should ask a couple things, one, what changes have you seen in this neighborhood?

	T:	In the Tan Yard area? M:	Yeah.

	T:	Well, like I said we lived in an integrated neighborhood when there wasn’t integration, but I was always associated with St. Joseph that was a basis for us. We felt like we had the best of the world during segregation and after segregation and integration and this end of town we were always very comfortable. I don’t know if that answers your question.

	M:	Oh yeah, no, no, no it does. How would you describe the meaning or the importance of this church to the community?

	T:	Oh it was the upmost importance, not only to Black families but the Caucasian families that lived in this area too and it was the center of the social gathering for my parents and for us as children.





	M:	Is there anything specific about it that made it so meaningful for people?



	T:	Well maybe Martin can answer that but St. Joseph it’s always been very very important to people, it’s always been like home.

	L:	You know back home, as she mentioned about the Tan Yard being integrated, you went to church, you had integrated congregation, these folks you learn their name, they learn your name. There’s a couple people who [inaudible 34:11] hanging in there was an Italian family I’ve known since I can remember. Like she said St. Joseph was like the lighthouse for this area, everything happen around the church. Plus the other fact that most of the people related to each other [Laughter].

	M:	[Laughter]



	T:	Oh yeah, I told you my mother’s name was Almena Brown Dees. M:	Mhmm.

	T:	Okay, she came from the Brown family, our father was a Brown, Mathew Brown. He was of fourteen children and each one of them had anywhere from two to ten.

	M:	Oh wow, okay.



	T:	And they were members of St. Joseph’s church so you’ll find everyone is related to each other in some kind of way.

	M:	Wow



	L:	[Laughter] [inaudible 35:07] my family married into the Brown family. Her husband on the other side he was—we cousins through marriage.

	M:	[Laughter] so, it’s very close knit.





	T:	Oh yes, this where I met my husband, he went to school down here and we [inaudible 35:28] up, we knew each other all the way through grammar school, high school, then college then we got married.

	M:	Wow, well I think I can come up with a lot of questions today, I want to be respectful of your time, are there some particular topics you would want to talk about that we haven’t discussed or…?

	T:	Well, she said she was gonna talk about the church, I mean she was interviewing people at the church and the Tan Yard. The Tan Yard was a very special place, we didn’t have cars at that time, everybody walked so when I walked up government street there were houses all the way from my house all the up to hear. You knew everybody and you talked to them and like Martin said, half of them were related to you and then when you got to church you knew everybody in church and it was back during the time if you were naughty you were reprimanded not necessarily by your parents but by some of your relatives or somebody else who told your parents you’ve been naughty. So, it was really a family affair.

	M:	People looked for each other. T:	Oh very much so!

	M:	Do you remember, I mean there were a lot of businesses back then I guess, right?

	T:	Oh yeah! Right here, the school I went to was across the street, it was Chappie James Building, it was a wooden structure. After I left, they built a nice brick building, Martin went to the nice brick building but I went to the old wooden





building and all the corner was a grocery store called B.G. Grocery, I don’t know what the B and G stands for, do you?

	L:	No, no idea.



	T:	Across the street was Pete Chapman’s Grocery and there was a little fish market right next to that and going back towards my house this way there was Piper’s Printing Company which was on the corner of Rouse and Government. On the corner of Coil and Government was another store, I don’t know what the name of that store was but growing up there were a lot of big good grocery stores. Going on towards my house there was also one on B and Government because we didn’t have all these supermarkets then in the area so we used neighborhood groceries and fishing was a big industry because Joe Paddie really had moved here when I was a child and my grandfather fished with him.

So, it was a big fishing industry down that way and the downtown area [inaudible 38:24] Street, we used to go to movies but we had to sit upstairs because if you were Black you didn’t sit downstairs, you had to go up the stairs to sit and look at the movie which didn’t bother kids yet and we would go to the movie and there would be White kids and Black kids in the group and they went in this door and we went in this door but when we got inside we sat together, I mean you know they couldn’t do anything about kids doing that. There was three five and dime stores on [inaudible 38:58] Street then, Woolworths [inaudible 39:02] and Newberries and there was several dress shops for ladies and shoe shops. It was booming downtown then, [inaudible 39:13]

	L:	JC Penny and Sears.





	T:	And Sears were downtown, and that right over from the church because this was Barcelona street then, they changed the name of the street.

	M:	Okay, so there was a lot going on.



	T:	Oh yeah, we had church festivals here at St. Joseph’s twice a year, a spring and fall festival and that drew a lot of people and the ladies made cakes and sold and they made meal and it was a fun thing, there were games and there was entertainment for the children.

	M:	And when you say festivals, is that just members or is that whole community? T:	It was originally for members, but it supplied entertainment for the whole area,

didn’t it?



	L:	[inaudible 40:12] for the whole area and when we had the lawn party, once again it was an integrated affair because you had your immigrant families here, your Italians and Irish, they would all shuffle along cause everybody having a good time.

	M:	It sounds like a good time.



	T:	Yeah, living down in this area was unique or going to this church and school was unique too.

	M:	Did anyone celebrate Juneteenth or Mayday around here or no? T:	Not at St. Joseph’s. No, we celebrated St. Joseph Day.

	M:	Okay.



	T:	The Saints in the Church. L:	St. Patrick was a big thing. M:	Oh okay.





	T:	And St. Patrick’s Day, those day but we didn’t celebrate Juneteenth or…what the other you asked about?

	M:	Or Mayday or… T:	Mayday no.

	M:	What did you do for St. Patrick’s Day?



	T:	I don’t know for St. Patrick’s, but for St. Joseph’s we got a holiday from school so that was always exciting. [Laughter]

	M:	Oh okay.



	L:	For St. Patrick’s, we’d come to school—most of our pastors were Irish so we’ll come and then put on a little program singing Irish songs and do the Irish gig and after the program was over a lot of times they’d let us go home.

	T:	You get to go home early. So, that was exciting for us as children.



	M:	Yeah it’s got be. Okay, let me see and so you remember [inaudible 41:57] you went to the school over there, the…?

	T:	You talking about Lily James School? M:	Yeah.

	T:	Oh, I never—



	M:	Oh, you didn’t go to that one?



	T:	No, I went to Miss Carter’s which was on the west side, yeah. M:	Okay, what was Miss Carter like?

	T:	Very strict lady, made you learn, I went there from first, second and I think I came here in the third grade, so I went kindergarten, first, second with Miss Carter’s and you sat down and did whatever she said and that was ABCs and math.





	M:	I mean it sounds like she got you prepared though. T:	Oh, she did, very much so.

	M:	Okay, let’s see and how did you end up going to that school? Was that just…? T:	To the high school?

	M:	To Miss Carter’s school.



	T:	Oh, to Miss Carter’s, my mother found it, I really don’t know, it was on Jackson Street so—

	L:	[inaudible 42:58]



	T:	Hmm?



	L:	I said, yeah right down there by [inaudible 43:03] T:	Right over eighth

	L:	Yeah, right over [inaudible 43:06] T:	It was between A and B on Jackson

	L:	See the other one I got sent to Miss Johnson’s which was on A and [inaudible 43:12] [Laughter]

	T:	And it was within walking distance, you had to plan for things you forget to easily.



	M:	Yeah, that makes sense, well so we covered a lot today…one thing I guess I would ask is just there seems to be a lot of changes to Tan Yard it’s now kind of looking at as neighborhood, what would you hope to see for it’s future [inaudible 43:43]?

	T:	Well, you know when integration came in, the Tan Yard there was houses on [inaudible 43:53] all the way over, those were Black families and they were all displaced by the sewer system. The city [inaudible 44:01] at that time decided to





put a sewer system down between Government and [inaudible 44:07] and it went over to Club and all those people that lived in that had to move and find other places to live.

	L:	Sewer plant used to be like one block and then they expanded and took out the whole neighborhood

	T:	They took out from Coil to Club, all those houses in there and the city manager, now this has been told to me as an adult, the city manager at that time, I can’t remember his name, said that he wasn’t happy with integration and he said, so when the city needed a sewer plant he said that he would be able to put it in a Black neighborhood and he would show them about how he felt anyway and they couldn’t do a thing about that and they really couldn’t. And I don’t know how true that is, that’s folklore.

	M:	It’s believable folklore, unfortunately. So, is there anything else you would want to talk about that we haven’t covered?

	T:	No, my family was a very loving family and they taught us how important education was. My brother went to school and he was an attorney and I was a nurse, my sister died at infancy but my mother believed in education so we were always happy, we thought we were wealthy, we thought we were millionaires but we were very poor people who didn’t have really a lot of things but we survived and as children we were happy enough to think that our parents were rich.

	M:	Probably one of the strangest thing, I guess it happened in other cities as well but you had a little bit but the little bit you had, you thought your family had money because you could always distinguish those above, that you consider the really





poor but in a lot of families worth a little bit of money so people thought they were rich [inaudible 46:24] wait until I got into the room, I’ll find out who’s rich and who’s poor.

	T:	Mhmm.



	M:	[Laughter]



	T:	Took a while for me to realize that but we were very poor. My mother was resourceful.

	M:	If I could ask too, what kind of value was placed on education in your home?



What kind of education did your parents have?



	T:	My mother was a high school graduate, she graduated from Booker T. Washington High School in the Class of 1920, I think, [19]19 or [19]20. My father did not finish school, my father completed about eighth grade but that was typical for Black males during that time ‘cause they went to work early but my mother had strong educational values. She said that we were going to finish college, that was her goal and we did, my brother and I.

	M:	So, you were raised with that from the start.



T:   From the beginning, that was just part of growing up, you had to go to school. Go to school through college and I brought that to my children, their education is not complete when finish high school, it was complete with a Bachelor’s Degree.

M:   Seems it served you all pretty well



T:   Yeah, it worked because four of my kids have Bachelor’s Degree.



	M:	That’s impressive, is there anything else you would want to add at this point?





	T:	No, I told you the experiences I had that were job related and the various things that happened to me because of segregation and even with Sacred Heart with the nuns that happened to me and the medical doctors were not that receptive to Black nurses at that time and those two hospitals later during the time I was having the children, I worked back at Baptist because I lived near Baptist, they a separate floor that treated Black people. It was the second floor and I worked there in between some of pregnancies too and Sacred Heart ward for Afro- Americans was in the basement really of that building over there on twelfth avenue.

	L:	And later they moved it up to the second floor, one wing was called St. [inaudible 49:05] ward that’s where all Black patients were placed at.

	T:	They didn’t integrate the patients in the hospital and somebody was telling me out there that somebody worked at the blood bank, they separated the blood. Well, now I can understand how stupid that could be cause if you look at blood under the microscope, you can’t tell where it comes from but they did not want a transfusion from Martin to you.

	L:	That would make you “Black” [Laughter] M:	[Laughter]

	T:	[Laughter] Something would happen to you I guess



	M:	I guess, wow, that’s…I mean was it ever just strange for you to have all this scientific and practical knowledge and then to see these completely ridiculous ideas just…?





	T:	You knew they were ridiculous but my parents always taught me that I was above all of that. Don’t let people trample you down, so I did not and I think most young Black people coming up during my time, they were not trampled by segregation at all.

	M:	They found ways to deal with it. T:	Mhmm.

	M:	That’s powerful, I mean I guess if you have any remaining thoughts this is a good time to kind of share what ever else you would want to put in the recording.

	T:	Well, it’s just that I had a good life, I’m eighty-six now and I’m grateful for my life that I have had and I’ve had many opportunities. I had three different careers, maybe four, three: nursing, social work, and education. And all of them were very rewarding and then I had a happy family, I had four children and I’m very proud of their accomplishments too so life has been good to me in spite of segregation.

	M:	Well, thank you very much. T:	Okay.

M:  Okay, just talking a little more about the history the Tan Yard and the church cause you’ve done research on this, you’ve done a lot of research. Can I ask how you started that research? What drove you to kind of get…?

	L:	When I was growing up here in St. Joseph that was several older members of the parish. One was Mr. [inaudible 51:58], I used to come up [inaudible 52:03]. When I was young I would go home first, she would pick up from [inaudible 52:07] house and [inaudible 52:08] would tell me all these old stories about the church





in the early days and the more I heard, the more I got interested in, okay what were things like back then. That’s how I got started.

	M:	Okay, so oral history just kind of…okay, I mean were you interested in research overall?

	L:	My major is History [Laughter]



	M:	Oh okay [Laughter] that good then L:	Yeah

	M:	At what point did you decide to write a book about the church? L:	When I was working on my Master’s [Laughter]

	M:	[Laughter]



L:  I finished it, I would go to the library at [inaudible 52:46] to do stuff for class and somewhere in the middle of it I said, let me see if I can find something about the church. I sat there [inaudible 52:56] other stuff, that’s how I got started.

M:  What [inaudible 53:03] about history? L:  I just found what’s interesting history M:  Yeah, just there.

L:   Yeah, my real interest is like Ancient and Medieval



M:   Okay, what do you remember about the neighborhood growing up?



	L:	Okay, the neighborhood growing up it was full of houses, this was the neighborhood, a whole lot of folks and as [inaudible 53:31] said, the neighborhood was integrated. A lot of them were younger families, they were Irish, Italian, German and you had a few of us and they were all around. As I





said, they attended church here and went to all the church activities and it was a bustling little neighborhood.

	M:	So, do you feel it was kind of more integrated I guess than other parts of Pensacola?

	L:	It probably the most integrated section in town. T:	Definitely it was.

	M:	What made it so successful at that?



	L:	You had Blacks and Creoles living in this area and I think talking to Lily years ago, they said at [inaudible 54:24] Black people in this area was basically Creoles and immigrants and slowly more came in and they intermingle through church activities, live next to each other, we played together so everything just meshed and they were all friends. The only problem you had was it was just in Tan Yard, once you got to [inaudible 54:51] Street, nothing, people [inaudible 54:54] [Laughter] you played with them last night and you go downtown and I know you, you know me but we’re ain’t going to say nothing to each other. Now we have to play the segregation game.

	M:	How did you kind of adjust to that?



	L:	That was life, I had a classmate very good, one of my best friends in elementary school. He was Black but you couldn’t tell, no one could tell he was Black. We were good friends, I would come down to his house and we would play and stuff like that but if I went downtown and he was downtown, [inaudible 55:40] the rule was I don’t speak to him and he don’t speak to me but he was the type that he





would see but he would always do something to acknowledge that he saw you. We’ll talk but we would hang out or do something [inaudible 55:58] I see you.

	M:	Had to find a code or something and just…I mean how did you learn about that was that like an actual conversation people would have or did you just kind of pick it up?

T:  It was the way of life. L:  It was the way of life. M:  [inaudible 56:16]

L:   You know we—



T:   [inaudible 56:18]



	L:	As I said in Tan Yard, things are fine but once you left the Tan Yard you had to revert to segregation.

	T:	But now, kids had a lot of fun disrupting that system. Our favorite thing—I hate to interrupt.

L:   No problem.



	T:	My brother and I and teenagers that were Caucasian, our favorite thing on Saturday, or parents would allow us to walk downtown. We walk from out there to downtown and in the stores, those [inaudible 56:53] I talked about, there were two water fountains, a White water fountain and it said colored, it didn’t say Black and on Saturdays we would go from one store to another and we would drink out of the Caucasian water and run and then we’d go to the next store and do the same thing. I mean that was a lot of fun then, its ridiculous now but we’d do that every Saturday.





	M:	Wow, did you get yelled at?



	T:	Oh yeah, they would say, “Catch them!” And we’d be running and run out the store and we also needed to know whether the White water taste different from colored water.

	L:	Another thing they had like a [inaudible 57:40], those in the past a lot of time they would go in the front door just to see if they could get away so they go in the front door and go in the theater and then they would come up to the balcony and then jump the balcony barrier between Blacks and Whites and they hang out with friends.

	M:	So, you found ways— T:	To have fun.

	M:	Yeah, were you disappointed when the White water was just water? T:	[Laughter] we discovered that the first time, that it taste no different

	L:	I know when I would go downtown with parents, they would always tell me, “Use the bathroom before you go, make sure you got enough water cause I don’t want running to the colored bathroom and I don’t want you to drink from no colored fountain”.

	M:	And that stuck with you?



	L:	Yeah, as we said it’s the way of life. You know what you could and what you couldn’t do and you didn’t push the button on it, that’s just how things work and you just live accordingly like there were several restaurants downtown, I think one of them was thinking was the [inaudible 58:59] it was owned by Christ Church. It was a White restaurant but they would allow you to come in through





the front door, you could place your order—if you called in the order—you couldn’t pass the counter now. You could come in there and you could get [inaudible 59:18] pay for what you ordered. Make you go around some side door or anything but you knew what [inaudible 59:24] when you walked into a White restaurant.

	M:	Well, that’s—so did you see the Civil Rights Movement going on here in Pensacola?

	L:	Yeah, I grew up down the marches and lunch counter sit-ins and things along that line.

	M:	What was your feeling about that at the time? I mean what was that like to see… T:	Well, my mother was a very aggressive lady, she participated in the Civil Rights marches and my dad not but my mom did. She didn’t do sit-ins at the lunch

counters but all the marches that they had down [inaudible 01:01:07] she always participated along with my husband.

	M:	Wow, so she was a strong woman T:	Oh yeah, she was very strong

	L:	I would see things going on, I just saw it cause my problem was I was [inaudible 01:00:31] west of 19th street which was in the [inaudible 01:00:34] area. It was, I guess you could say, the closer you get to it was a mixed neighborhood as far as income. So, you had Blacks who had money and Blacks who had nothing but you were pretty much shielded from other things. You know the funeral home was there, they had stores and restaurants, so [inaudible 01:01:03] so you pretty much shielded from a lot of stuff I guess another sense people would have





problems with because if I never left the area I wouldn’t have a problem or even my high school was in my neighborhood, one block behind my house. So, a lot of things some people faced I was shielded from.

	M:	I mean it takes a community to do that, I guess and if I could ask, so your mom and your husband marched? Is there a reason you didn’t march?

	T:	I was off having babies [Laughter]



	M:	Oh, that would keep your pretty busy [Laughter] T:	Yes!

	M:	Did they talk about it much when they were involved? T:	No, but my mother was very persistent in doing it.

	M:	She believed in it?



	T:	Oh yes, although she did not look that Black, but she was very very insistent on doing that.

	L:	My memory on that somehow [inaudible 01:02:16] of that. It seem like I remember when they start marching but I don’t think [inaudible 01:02:25]

	T:	[inaudible 01:02:25]



	L:	—for a very long time when segregation thing started [inaudible 01:02:31] all the time.

	T:	There was no disruption or fights or anything like that, that I can recall. Do you? L:	No.

	M:	So, it was kind of— T:	Here in—

	M:	—make the statement and then just kind of have it happen?





	L:	One [inaudible 01:02:56] money riding left, seemed like they decided to drop their superseding that way no and right after they did that just store by store dropped the busses, the same thing busses integrate. It’s like everything happened almost just about at once.

	T:	Of course it was not without effort cause Reverend Matthews who was a Civil Rights Leader here in Pensacola really had to struggle with people to get them to do some of these things, they just didn’t just say, “Well, okay we’re going to do this for you”. Without him going there and being the person that interceded so that this would happen.

	M:	What was Reverend Matthews like?



	T:	Oh he was a dynamic person, very dynamic! M:	Like as a speaker? As a…

	T:	As a doer, a speaker and doer.



	L:	I guess one reason that you had a lot of, I wouldn’t say a lot, you had many Blacks who did not participate. It goes back to the early days of the civic…Pensacola always had a large free people of color who were educated and they had jobs and some people from Alabama and other areas heard about how things were different here in Pensacola, they would move in and I think the problem was that some Blacks, they figured they really—too much of something they may lose some of those freedoms that they gained over the years because around the turn of the century, believe it or not Blacks had never [inaudible 01:04:57] Whites in Pensacola. It was with the [inaudible 01:05:00] I told you about the people from Alabama who came down here and they brought their





segregated thoughts along with them and that’s how Jim Crow happening because they came late like in the [19]20s when Jim Crow finally hit Pensacola.

M:  I mean do you feel there’s something kind of different about Pensacola from the rest Florida?

L:  Well, it was a Spanish settlement and Spanish slavery was different from English slavery. In Spanish slavery, slaves could testify in court, they could also buy their freedom so that was a lot of interaction between the Spanish and the slaves and the free people of color so they just got along a lot better.

	T:	+But now this end of Florida has become—what do you call it? Well I don’t want that on the recording but it’s Trump territory and basically they would like segregation to return, not just necessarily for Afro-Americans but for brown people. [Mentioned she might not want this section of the recording, I don’t know if has already been taken out or if it’s still in the audio I transcribed]+

	M:	Yeah, it’s a strange time. T:	It is, very strange.

	M:	Well, that’s—I mean another issue that people have raised about the Tan Yard is just the gentrification going on right now, do you have any thoughts on kind of what’s happening and what you would want to see for the future of this neighborhood?

	L:	[inaudible 01:06:49] pretty much destroyed this neighborhood, houses are gone, family neighborhood is gone. What they’re building it’s not on the Tan Yard, it’s almost over the whole city. Well they can find some pride for that, the thing that





people said that once [inaudible 01:07:08] would renew or reborn, they had all these things done. So, now people want to live close to downtown as possible, they could walk from their house to whatever’s going on [inaudible 01:07:19] Street [inaudible 01:07:22] liquidating property to build houses on. Wants his money, they’re buying up old houses, with the taxes going Black families don’t live in the neighborhood, their taxes are getting up to the point where they can’t afford to pay the taxes. So, they’re moving, tearing down, and reconstructing.

	T:	Right back from the suburbs to the city, that’s happening a lot of large towns. As you know, there was a flight to the suburbs when integration came in, now there’s flight back to the city and like Martin said they’re houses and they’re not feasible for the average poor family. House for two bedrooms for three hundred thousand dollars, that is aggressive.

	L:	The neighborhood I live in, there’s a [inaudible 01:08:25] trying to sell houses.



They’re buying lots as quick as they can find them, there are a couple of houses up my way, they’re huge houses, big houses about—if I could guess—about the [inaudible 01:08:39] they bought the house and they tore both houses down. Dr. Hicks house they had a hard time tearing it because of the fireplace. They tore the house down and they put two or three houses on the lot.

	T:	[inaudible 01:08:54] I passed that and saw [inaudible 01:08:57] L:	Mhmm.

	M:	Just uprooting it and putting.



	L:	It’s practically next to me, I owned it but I finally said what am I waiting on might as well sell it. They bought it, they put two houses on there.





	T:	How many next to you? Two?



	L:	Yeah, they couldn’t get three because I wouldn’t sell them the lot next to me.



Selling the [inaudible 01:09:19] but I didn’t want [inaudible 01:09:19] T:  Mhmm.

L:  Then behind it, Mr. Ray Shepard, they tore his down and they have, I think, two houses and they got space to build a third one. So, they’re tearing houses down and rebuilding houses.

M:  Do you think there is any better future for this neighborhood? Or do you think it’s too late at this point?

	T:	What’s done is done, it’s already done now cause the houses are up and the block where I lived as a child, my parents’ home is still standing, we’re holding onto that but next to it, all the way to the corner, there are four houses they put in there that people live at and across the street they’ve built them too. So, this city, I don’t know what’s happening as far as housing is concerned but the city is building houses everywhere they can find a space.

	L:	I think I’m waiting for a slump. They’re building houses as fast they can build them and the more I look at them, I say some point I gonna build too many houses. But those with money they’re like, I can make a fortune buying houses, tearing them down and building new houses and charging them a fortune for it so they did while the going is good but [inaudible 01:10:54] looking around town as fast as they’re building these houses in such numbers, somewhere along the line things are gonna start slipping.

	T:	You think so?





	L:	I think so



	M:	That’s rough but… T:	That’s how it goes

	L:	But down here will never be the same again…because down here before the rebirth of [inaudible 01:11:29] Street it was like living in the country. [inaudible 01:11:38] which is the main street in downtown, they were open I guess nine and the shelter close at five and I said about six o’clock once everyone who working get out of here you would think you were in the country, it would be as quiet as—

	T:	[inaudible 01:11:57] my mother was on city council then when they decided to start working to revitalized [inaudible 01:12:03] street, [inaudible 01:12:05] street the [inaudible 01:12:05] is really changed and I forgot [inaudible 01:12:14] he was a city councilman too.

	M:	That’s big



	T:	You probably need to talk to him



	M:	Oh yes! Yeah, the next time we’re here I’m sure we’ll...



	L:	Before they rip five plots, six plots, you could even hear crickets. [inaudible 01:12:38] you’d be downtown and you’d know it.

	T:	It’s like [inaudible 01:12:42] almost I think that was the thing in the back of people’s mind that [inaudible 01:12:46] street stays open all night long and maybe the bars and everything else they have on [inaudible 01:12:54] would stay open all night long but I think we have a curfew, don’t we?

	L:	Yeah, there was a curfew for [inaudible 01:13:05] M:	So, not quite [inaudible 01:13:07] street





	T:	Not quite, no because [inaudible 01:13:10] never closes



	M:	Well, I guess thing at the moment would just be if you have any comments about this church and kind of what it’s meant to you and the community and…

	L:	I’ve been a member of this church all my life. I didn’t live in the Tan Yard as I said I lived [inaudible 01:13:38] Street area but I spent most of my life—although I didn’t live here—I spent most of my life down here in at the Tan Yard cause all my friends and so forth were here and St. Joe had survived, and I think will continue too. The church is what, a hundred and twenty-eight years old now.

	M:	Well, you have anything else to add? You’re welcome to L:	I can’t think of anything, perhaps you Lily?

	M:	…then thank you very much! [End of interview]





	Transcribed by	Omar Sanchez, February 24, 2021 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 17, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 18, 2021