AAHP 747; Land; Page 10















Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfbSamuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 747 Hazel Land Joel Buchanan Archive (JBA)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini, Ebony Love, Amanda Lorenzo, Ashley Brickhouse on January 24, 2020

93 minutes | 30 pages



Abstract: Hazel Land, lawyer and civil rights activist, reflects on her life growing up in Florida. She details her humble beginnings in Brooksville and how this environment impacted her future education journey which would take her to Tuskegee University for undergraduate school and University of Florida for law school. Before she became a lawyer, Land worked with the NAACP for many years, eventually serving as the state director for Tennessee. Throughout her academic and personal struggles, especially as she adjusted to a predominantly white law school, she managed to persevere and became the first African American woman to graduate from University of Florida’s Levin College of Law.



Keywords: [Civil Rights Movement; Activism; Law/legal; Discrimination; African American History]





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 747

Interviewee: Hazel Land

Interviewer: Ryan Morini, Amanda Lorenzo, Ebony Love, Ashley Brickhouse Date of Interview: January 24, 2020





M:  We’re starting, so, this is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. Today’s January 24, 2020, and I’m here with my colleagues, if you wanna—?

AL: Amanda Lorenzo. EL:  Ebony Love.

	B:	Ashley Brickhouse.



	M:	And we are at the home of— HL:	Hazel M. Land.

	M:	Thank you very much for inviting us to your home. Can I ask what the “M” stands for?

HL:  Mae.



	M:	Mae. Okay. And, so when and where were you born?



	HL:	I was born here in Brooksville, Florida on June 12, 1932. I was born at home because at that time, there was only one hospital, which, it was a small place— it still is small, but well has grown a lot and we do have some hospitals now. Will that cover the date of birth and where?

	M:	Yes, yes. And, so was there a midwife present at the birth? HL:	Excuse me?

	M:	Was there a midwife?



	HL:	Yeah. A midwife served to bring me into the world. M:	Do you know who that person was?

	HL:	I know she was related to us but I don’t remember her name.





	M:	May I ask your parents’ names? HL:	My parents’ names?

	M:	Yes.



	HL:	My mom’s name was Ally Mae Land, she came from the Larry family, that’s her maiden name. What was that I had to get? And, my father’s name was Isal Land. He was not from this town, he was somewhere from in South Carolina. They married and separated when I was four or five years old. I had two sisters older than me, and that was the end of the family as such, names of the family. Both of my sisters have died now, and I miss them so much, it hasn’t been that long since they’ve left. But, all— everybody has that to contend with, family members departing this Earth. But, we seem to make it, go on. Let’s see now what else is it that you want to know about the family?

	M:	So, you grew up here in Brooksville?



	HL:	Yes, we grew up in Brooksville and that was during segregation days. Blacks go to one school, Whites go to another school. That’s the way it was during my time here. I wanted to say something about separate schools and I can’t speak with any belief about things if you weren’t there, well, you know— I know about my school and the Black school, but just, well not too long ago, I was doing some work on trying to describe the Black school from the White school. I didn’t finish my work on that but I think I’ll get back on it because there’s not much on that— one or two books have been written by at least one school superintendent and I





believe another one was written by somebody else in the school system who at the time was studying at a junior college here that we had in town. My other two sisters, they also finished high school here in Brooksville.

Carrie, the second child of my parents, and also the oldest one, Rosetta, she finished high school here also. Carrie did graduate work at— I mean, her college work at Tuskegee Institute in Alabama. That’s where I graduated from, too, one year after her. She was one year ahead of me in public school, graduated in 1948, and I graduated from high school in 1949. We both went to school and had jobs— well, we had to get jobs up there because mom had no money to send us to college but we got up to, Tuskegee had a program where you could work and use that money, work for Tuskegee, I mean in various areas, and you could use that money to go to school with. I enjoyed my work at Tuskegee and I, first— I was copying off my sister in choosing what I wanted to do. She chose physical ed, not that I wanted to do it so much, but I did that, too. Whatever she did, [laughter] I did the same thing. But, I didn’t, my teaching was not in that area the entire time. I taught for, I guess about ten years. But my first year of teaching was in Alabama, itself, not too far from Tuskegee. And the second year I taught in Florida. I’ll think of the name of the town shortly, but I can’t recall right now. And the other years were at, in New Jersey at— two or three years at New Jersey was in the Department of Physical Education but not as a school with a class, you take one class and that’s your class for this period and that period, not that way. By that





time, the Peace Corps came out— President Kennedy announced the Peace Corps and what it was all about and he say, “Let’s,” and I said, “Go!” [Laughing]. I really wanted to because for a long time, I had wanted to get to somewhere in Africa and I thought that would be a good way to get there. And it was. I went first to, in Peace Corps program, I went to the Philippines. At that time, I was in an early group, one they had chosen, one group of people to be trained in the States and I was in the midst of serving out a contract with New Jersey. And, I didn’t go the first time, I went the second time they trained and that was in, as I said, in the Philippines and the second trip was to Nigeria. Of course, it was real interesting to me and I enjoyed it and somebody asked me, “Did you get married?” Well, I didn’t. And for no reason other than my own private reasons, but I enjoyed it. I came back and started working for the NAACP first in Florida— well, when I got back here, home, they didn’t, hadn’t organized the NAACP. So, I did it, door-to-door going, asking, “Will you?” And then people were reluctant because other things— so many things had been happened, had been happening to you if you start with your rights as a citizen, and you probably weren’t given at the time. I’m not, didn’t see what we were up against as a— of course, it hasn’t grown yet but I’m just saying that we just didn’t have that contending with what— but anyway, you know what the situation is now yourselves because you’re in it. There’s no branch of the NAACP here in Brooksville, Hernando County, and so I— one day I was in Tampa and I had intended to go by the





NAACP office there and that day that I chose to do that, the regional director of the NAACP was in Tampa training the first— no, he wasn’t the first state person to work with the NAACP for fun— I mean as a job. But it was his first day, he was being trained. So, the regional director said she taught both of us at the same time, well maybe she did say something, I mean, but anyway we started after— Marvin Davies is his name. I don’t think you, he wasn’t, you wouldn’t know him, I don’t believe you wouldn’t, well I know you wouldn’t because of the age, so I came back and I got every book they had on the NAACP, pamphlets and whatnot. And then, I just went ahead and knew what I had to do was to get membership of fifty,

I think that was the minimum membership you had and we went from door-to-door and talked to people. And it took less than a month, twenty- eight days, to talk to people, tell them what it is and how it is, and they knew just like I did, no, but they thought they would be without a job if the— and I guess some did, I don’t know, but they really didn’t know

enough about it, all they knew about on the television is burning down and held the wrong information about who did the burning, that kind of thing.

But we did get that done in that month of time, and still that same group that we organized is still a, they had their annual luncheon last Saturday I think. The seventeenth or eighteenth or something like that. So, we’re still going. No need to close up yet because you haven’t done all the work that needs to be done, yet. But at any rate, we had that going. And if you all wanna break in at any time, feel free to ask a question about whatever.





So, I was hired by the NAACP, I got back here and tried doing things like organizing a branch, so I worked in Florida for a while and then I was assigned to the state of Tennessee. I was there in Tennessee for about three years, I think. And—

	M:	You were Regional Director there? HL:	No, not regional.

	M:	Not regional, okay.



	HL:	But, I was state director for the state of Tennessee. But the regional directors had maybe Tennessee and five or six other states to be over, like the one that I first did— the one that did my first training in the NAACP was the regional director for, her office was in Atlanta and she had the southeastern states under her jurisdiction. I enjoyed that work and I’m glad I was able to do that. See, I think it was— I don’t recall now how many years that was I worked with Tennessee, but I think it must have been about three years or four years, I don’t know. Don’t recall. And then, I thought— being a lawyer was not on my mind any as a younger person, as an adult. But having been out there and seeing what it was all about and what needed to be done, I felt that I wanted to do that and I did it, I, as I said, worked that long. And then other things came up and it got in my mind somehow that we need to know, and larger groups need to know about what’s going on, what we need to do, and what we can do and that kind of thing. And all I’m doing this time, there were still lots of problems with racism— racial problems. And I don’t know how it got in my mind to





pursue a law degree but I knew it would, from time to time, when I’d hear about some Blacks being elicited for this and that and how it was done and that kind of thing, and I just got it in my mind, “I need to see what I can do better about our boys going to court and getting sentenced with triple and more so than that for things that they have done, crime that they have committed, and other people, Whites doing the same and getting far less,” that kind of thing. So, I applied and nobody, I didn’t tell anybody about it, I just applied for, I don’t know, four or five states I made an application and they all, which was, you know, I guess what they look at, they ask for is your grades and your work, period, in the— so far as trying to get a degree and that kind of thing. And I think about four or five states’ schools I applied and I was accepted in all of them, but naturally, I chose one and it was the University of Florida. I didn’t wanna go to nothing that’s lower than that, than what they called the best in the state. And I wanted it in the state because I knew I wanted to come back here to live, and it was no problem, of course the University of Florida already struggled with the NAACP when they had to let the first person, first Black person, go— I’ve forgotten his name now— the first student, Black student, to enroll there.

	EL:	George Allen or George Stark?



	HL:	Yeah, George Allen, uh-huh. EL:	Did you know him personally?

	HL:	Is that it? That sounds familiar but it seems to me, it was a older person than—I don’t know but I—





	M:	Are you thinking of Virgil Hawkins? HL:	Huh?

	M:	Virgil Hawkins? Is that—



	HL:	I believe, that sounds familiar, too. So, but anyway, I had no problem getting ahead, get ahead and write Tuskegee, I mean, [Inaudible 23:34] on the graduate work after and then they didn’t interview me or anything. I just— I mean just accepted me. And I was first, I wasn’t the first woman, Black woman, to apply for that but I was the first one to finish my work, leaving work there. At my graduation, all the Brookside was there except five or six thousand. [Laughter]. But, it was a lot, I think that— I don’t think that, I know that’s the largest group of Black people being at a graduation of a student there and I don’t know but I don’t believe that there’s been any more than that. I wasn’t even living back home then, but the church found— our church, my family’s church, found out and they told everybody that I would be the first one to graduate, now they didn’t say out of men and women, they said I was the first one in our people. [Laughing]. They can fix it like they wanted to, but we had a large family and also they’re just family people there. But, I knew that, you know, by the way, I’m a Christian and I deeply believe in my faith and I know that if I ask and I have a desire to do that, I know it’s coming true, and [Inaudible 25:48] Father. Yeah, after that, I did some work during before I started as a lawyer and you wait for your, wait ‘til you really become a lawyer by passing the test and I didn’t pass it the first time I took it, but I passed it





the second time that I took the test and went on from there. And that first— during the time of waiting and becoming [Inaudible 26:46], I worked at legal services in Jacksonville and others that too who were waiting, I mean, not certified yet.

	EL:	How was your experience at the law school? When you were in law school, how was your experience?

	HL:	Oh, it was alright. I was the only woman, Black woman, to— that was in my class that had started when I started. But the next year, I mean, and there was a male guy, a man, he’s right there— probably right in… [Inaudible 27:53] in Gainesville? Gainesville, he was there. The two of us started together and the next year, there was some group that sought Blacks who were interested in going to law school, they would have them there at a— that’s when the training program comes on at that time, that’s when we got— my second year there, a group of Black students, when I say a group I mean ten or twenty, about ten or fifteen maybe, started that, my second year there. But I didn’t know, and this one thing, I got thinking about this not too long ago, I never studied with a group and I told somebody about that one time, it was in my final year, I was talking to some girl in the stadium, saying “How’d you even go?” Well, you can go all you want, I just wasn’t depending on nobody but me. I didn’t get a group together, so you know, you can’t, “Why didn’t you?” Somebody else could’ve gotten a group together and called me in. If you don’t do it yourself, then, but, the whole time I did my— and the first year was really





bad on going with my grades. And I tried the second year and it was just fine and one of the professors up there said, had told me that— I forgot, I lost my thought on that. But, you know, how those students get together and preparing for the examination and all, all that I did by myself. I didn’t call anybody to study together and they didn’t call me, so I— however I got out, it was by myself, and me and the Lord, that is. And one year, well that was the first year, I made low grades, and some I guess would’ve gotten discouraged, but all I know is after the first year— yeah I’m sure it was after the year— and the next time for grades that’d come out, I made honor roll. So, I don’t know what it took, I mean I was out of school a long time before I started law school so that may be— may have had something to do with it. But, I had faith and the Lord let me go on and do it because I never— I always got my grades, not bragging about it, but I mean, even in— of course, even in, coming up in high school and everything else, my sister Carrie, she was one grade ahead of me and whatever I needed, you know, in my grades, high school as well as college, I was able to, well not law school, but I was able to get her help.

And I’m so glad I did go on with it. That’s enough of going back, or you



want me to talk further about it, or?



	M:	I mean, we have more questions, if you— HL:	Uh-huh, well, come on!

	M:	Okay, okay! [Laughter]. Did any professors kind of stand out to you while you were at UF? I mean—





HL:  Did any professors do what?



M:  Who you especially remember for any reason? HL:  Oh, yeah. I don’t remember their names, but— M:  That’s okay.

HL:  I don’t know, but one professor was close to the Black students and had us over to his house sometimes, but that was more social than anything else.

M:  But, so those were what, like— dinners and things like that? Or what was the—

	HL:	Well, it was just for, no dinners, his wife was a teacher and he was, too, and I don’t know saying about that was why, but we didn’t look for anything. Sometimes he had— they would bring out a plate of sandwiches or something like that and we’d still talk on, but not anything that, you know, he invited to dinner this time, that kind of thing. But, that was— oh, my second year in law school that was right after they had had this summer meeting to get more Blacks interested in studying law and I don’t know, maybe about fifteen came, twelve or fifteen, something like that, the next year, the next school year, that would be my second year. Some of them stayed after the first year and some went to, in some other schools but I made it my business to go to University of Florida, I hadn’t heard anything about it but knowing states and how they do, they think, they know what’s the best school for, some find you study law or study whatever, they know— I mean, you know that’s around, that’s the best





school for that and I don’t know what it is or not, but that’s what they said. So, I mean, as long— all I’ve got I’ve got to put into it, I may as well, what they say, anyway, will be the first school and they also say that— don’t go to another school. You know, “Oh, where’d you go? Never heard of that place before.” I don’t know about saying that but that’s the impression I got. But, I’m glad I did go and—

	M:	So where did you live when you were in Gainesville? Where were you living?

	HL:	I was living at, there’s some apartments near the old high school of Gainesville and that’s how I tell people when I was going there how to get sometimes, how to get to my place and that kind of thing. But, do you know what general area?

	M:	I think so. Oh, Lincoln— Lincoln High School? HL:	Hm?

	M:	Lincoln High School, is that the one you’re talking about or? There are a couple old high schools.

	HL:	This was a high school that was right across the road from that big bunch of housing that the government did, the local government that ran all these towns, that’s where they have houses for people of lower income.

	M:	Mmhm. Okay, I think I know what you mean by that.



HL:  Yeah, well that’s where I was. And because they see somebody, how did I get this information about that? Because I was living in a private home, not home, but they own it and it was a house but the place over there with the





apartments, they weren’t houses for you— you know, other people were living in new apartments and they were government sponsored, they were built for people of lower income. So, it was a nice place over there that I was able to stay in.

	EL:	When you were at UF, do you know if there were any large student protests, or anything like that?

	HL:	Large what?



	EL:	Any protests, or anything?



	HL:	Oh, let’s see, what would that be? Yeah, there were some things with racial overtones. One or two that we marched in. Well, frankly speaking, I don’t know what they were about now but I know it was a racial thing and, the law students, quite a few, participated in those one or two I engaged in. That was— but I don’t think we had anything at the college at that time that was based at the college of Law at the University of Florida. Nothing that was started in that area from the law school, but the times I’m talking about were some things for— we joined in, rather than— ‘cause I don’t know what else we did, because I—

	M:	Do you remember the Institute of Black Culture? HL:	Do I remember what?

	M:	The Institute of Black Culture? It was across the street from the university, across University Avenue.





	HL:	[Inaudible 41:10], there was something along those lines. [Inaudible 41:17]. But, I haven’t— this answer, let you know that I wasn’t in it, but it was there. And, some things in and out.

	M:	So, when you were on campus, where did you spend most of your time?



Was it at classes? Did you have a place in the library or anything? Or where—?

	HL:	Yeah, library not that much. And I did study at home more than anywhere else. Oh yeah, I wanted to tell you, early in my career of learning law... I’m sorry.

	M:	It’s okay.



	HL:	Okay, I’m gonna try to, I mean I hope I’ll be able to think of what I’m about to say. But anything anybody else, have any questions?

	M:	I got a few, but I— EL:	I think I got mine.

	HL:	Oh yeah, I think— this is what it was, one time I— before I got started, I mean, after that time, that whole first year that I didn’t do well at all, and the next year, oh yeah and I, you know, I was down, could’ve been “D,” could’ve been after my first year, but I don’t remember it being after my first year. It could’ve been after my second, at the end of my second year, my grades were down, way down, and the next quarter or whatever, I made the honor roll. But, one of the teachers had said was that he thought that that was just the thing. In other words, he was saying, thinking that because of getting adjusted to college, or I mean law college, that’s why





you’re so far down, and the next time, you look at these subjects you’re taking and you made the honor roll, he thought that the time of the— it takes a year or so to adjust to your study of law that did it, but I don’t know what it was but all I know is that I won the, I mean at one point that I had summed up my grades. The next year we’d be in some subjects that I’ll be more familiar with, I don’t know, but that’s the way it was.

	M:	So, I have a question about— when you were growing up, did you always know you were going to go onto college and things like that?

	HL:	Oh no, oh, are you kidding? No. If you think about anything like that, these people would put you in jail. [Laughter]. Lord, forgive me for saying things like that. But, no, I never had any idea about reaching out like that, mm-

mm. Going to law school… [Sarcastically] law school?



	M:	So how did you end up deciding to go on to— when did you decide you were going to college? How did you decide on—

	HL:	To law college? The college, period? M:	To Tuskegee, first?

	HL:	Oh yeah, well, there was no doubt about that. My mom had three sisters, she and this one, she’s the oldest out of the girls and Momma’s the next one and then on down the line the other three, but all those three went to college. Money, you know, you’d steal to get it, and so they— at that time, you do two years of work, two years of college, and you can teach even, then at that time I didn’t think about going to school for four years because we, you know, the schools were separated and that made some difference





too. The Whites and the Blacks, and [Inaudible 47:31] have thought that going on to school the two years is all you need, you don’t need it anyways so much. But, all these little things that you can tell that my own thoughts about why, but no, we, that didn’t come up.

	M:	So how did you decide on Tuskegee?



	HL:	My second oldest aunt went there and she heard about that program where you can go to school and work your way through school college itself, that’s where we got it from. She brought it, she would go up there, she herself, you know, because they would go to— take two years of college work and then they were eligible to teach. So as of two years, she, my aunt, she started teaching and you know, during the summer she tried to get into, because she wanted that law degree, I mean four-year degree and she went to Tuskegee to get hers there and that’s how we got it! She was there during the summer and told my sister Carrie about it and talking about it and we all, with that knowledge we all thought about Tuskegee as where it’s at, where we going. And that was one good thing and then we passed it onto some other people here in Brooksville and our cousins and whatnot, they were able to go up there, too because of that work program.

	EL:	Did you do any— were you involved in any activities at Tuskegee? HL:	Excuse me?

	EL:	Were you involved in any activities like student organizations, at Tuskegee?





	HL:	Working.



	EL:	Aside from working, what did you do for fun?



	HL:	What did we do? Well, yeah, games and things, we didn’t have, whatcha- call-it, football, here in our town. Not until a long time before we got football here, so I didn’t know about and still don’t know much about it!

But, basketball was one thing that was attractive to us, to me, anyways. But, that’s all on the line of activities like that.

	M:	So, what was Brooksville like when you were growing up here?



	HL:	Well, it was— when things were separate, everything was separate, you know, when it comes down to activities and whatnot and even at the movies, we sat upstairs and, paid for it and sat upstairs. That’s it, I mean because this town is small, nothing going on here anyway and for them, for the Whites and nobody else. You know, it’s a small town. But we had ours, whatever it was, and our games, basketball was all we did intramurally but we don’t— I mean, it was separate, you don’t go there, they don’t come to us and we don’t come to them because, separate.

	M:	Did you interact much with White people at all when you were growing up?



	HL:	No, my mom and all her sisters and all eight who worked far made a living through being cleaning and cooking and keeping, it’s what you’re working for. Thank God or else I wouldn’t have no way of getting me any change, and money, or anything. But, at one point in time, I’m about to say something about other work that could— oh yeah, this is a country town and you have your vegetables and whatnot growing. People who had that,





they would hire Blacks to, but I don’t think many of them did that as a job to take care of their family with, that’s something they do on the sideline.

	M:	Extra money.



	HL:	Yes.



	M:	Okay. Did your family grow any food or anything like that, or where did you get your food from?

	HL:	Yeah, well, we— yeah, fruit trees grow everywhere even now over across the road there. I used to remember that as the tree that we used to get and across the road here, oh my, I got a lot over there. And, but, I don’t want to stand it from time to time, even now, we— for fruit trees and things, we’d go and get it and get them off trees near you, you know, whether you own the property or not. But, we’d never, never was a— because everything was plentiful like that and people who owned the property they don’t even care whether you go or not. And we, so we didn’t have any problems along that even though we may or may not have owned the property but if some oranges grow on this land don’t think you gonna get it all, because it’s yours, don’t think you gonna get it all! [Laughing]. We got some of it, too! I don’t know of anybody getting in jail about it, I don’t [Inaudible 55:25] but I don’t know why we didn’t!

	EL:	Can I ask a little bit more about your time with the NAACP? HL:	About what?

	EL:	The NAACP.



	HL:	Mmhm.





	EL:	What inspired you to want to work with them after the Peace Corps?



	HL:	Well, the need, really, because I was, I mean, in the towns and think, the bigger towns had branches and when I was in the Peace Corps and when I got out of the Peace Corps, well more people, more of our people would seem like to me, more anxious to get into, not only just more anxious, somebody’s got to come and let them know how can you involve yourself. A lot of times, the bigger towns have meetings on Sunday and bringing in somebody from New York— [Telephone ring]. I’m sorry but I’m gonna have to get that telephone call.

	EL:	I had asked what made you want to become involved with the NAACP, and you were talking about how you wanted to bring some of the, basically what you were doing with the Peace Corps, back here?

	HL:	Well, not necessarily here but I was getting around, you know, we had our meetings, some places that you’re talking about didn’t have branches and they didn’t keep up with things until something blows over in some way else, but we needed everybody to join in because some people were really frightened of the, of being members of organizations like NAACP. Because at that time some people were getting hurt and don’t know why, and nobody wants to volunteer to be shot at. But, they finally stopped thinking like that.

	M:	Did you get any threats or anything when you were organizing the NAACP?





	HL:	Unh-uh, no, no. I think the first time that I had called a meeting of public and invited everybody to come, I had an article put in the paper and that was, and it was being held on Sunday after church— after a certain church service. And somebody who was White called me and thinking that people coming in from everywhere, from the big cities to raise hell about it. And I told him that’s because we didn’t know any better and what we do, and I invited him to come because I put the article in the paper that we having this meeting, the NAACP is having a meeting on such and such and that’s what that was about, he said “Oh no!” Let’s see, you invited so they can come on, everybody. But that’s about the only thing I got from the public, the White public that I knew about.

	M:	When did you first learn about the NAACP? Did you ever hear about it growing up or was it only after you went to college or high school?

	HL:	Oh, yeah, no. I heard about the NAACP way before then because it had been around a long time and even though we didn’t have one here, we’d be talking about who was killed and who was done wrong by and all of that, talked about it amongst ourselves at home. And, you know, I was a child at the time but children got ears, too, they listen at what’s being said by the grownups and have their own conversations about it, too.

	M:	Did you get any of the Black newspapers here, like the Chicago Defender or anything like that?





	HL:	Yes, they had people who sold the papers, one person would get it— I was thinking about this— one lady, she was one to bring it around every weekend.

	EL:	Did you continue working with the NAACP after law school? HL:	Uh-huh, yeah. I was a state secretary for twelve years, I think. EL:	So, you did that while you were in Jacksonville, too?

	HL:	Mmhm, yes, mmhm.



	M:	Were you involved at all with the NAACP while you were in Gainesville?



Did you ever work with anyone there?



	HL:	Well, I was in touch with Reverend Wright, yeah, and that was church there. We knew each other from going to meetings even before I was in school at— [Telephone ring]. Let’s see, I better get that, too.

	EL:	We were talking about Reverend Wright.



	HL:	Oh, yeah, about Reverend Wright, uh huh. Yeah, he, in fact, I started going to church there, too, while I was in Gainesville, his church.

	M:	At Mount Carmel?



	HL:	I’ve forgotten what the— there’s a Mount Carmel I went to in Clearwater where I had membership. I taught, I mean, I practiced law there for ten years and that was one thing I wanted when I got out of law school. I wanted a— my own law office because if you working with other people, especially you got a job with some already going law office, you’ve got to listen at what somebody says and take the cases they say. But, I said, I ain’t go to school for law and then come back to be told, “Don’t do this,”





and “Don’t take that,” you know, I didn’t want that. So, I stayed there in Clearwater for ten years and then things started getting slow with work, so I heard about a job in Brooksville, I was surprised, and I saw it in one of the law books, not books but magazines, where they needed another worker on their staff. But at that time they didn’t say because their home office was in Ocala, but that’s close enough to Brooksville for me, but it was, I found out that that was where the work was, really in Brooksville so I was, I grabbed at it and got on the telephone, called, and got it.

	EL:	What kind of law did you practice?



	HL:	Anything that walked in the door. [Laughter]. EL:	I understand.

	HL:	But, you were talking about generally, when I first started or what, because—?

	EL:	Yeah, anything.



	HL:	You know, I did, that’s about it, anything that you hear about, they hear about you. But, I didn’t have any idea, as a matter of fact when I studied law I wanted to work near Brooksville but not in Brooksville. [Laughter]. So I did that and later on, I had a change of mind of working in your hometown, say well, I’ll take that.

	AL:	What was it like coming back to Brooksville after being away?



	HL:	Well, not anything much. Not much had changed. So far as the people are concerned, still nearly everybody in town your cousin. [Laughter]. And, by the way, we had the fiftieth reunion of the Timmins family and that fiftieth





year was two years ago. We really had a wonderful time and that was not skipping a year and all like that, every year we had some of the older men of the family, they would get near May, the last weekend in May they start calling around, you know, the ones calling the ones who usually did the work, get the letters out and get your— who’s gonna do cakes and who’s gonna, all like that. And it’s just been a really good thing. You never knew you had so many, nearly everyone— in fact, I say, “Ma, how’d y’all get any husbands around here?” And she say, “Almost didn’t get any, they come in from out of town!” And at that time, the, well, I don’t know about that and I go [Inaudible 01:07:36] me.

	M:	Is this where your mother grew up, too? HL:	Uh-huh, yes.

	M:	What about her parents? Were they from here, as well?



HL:  Uh, yes. Her parents— not her father, though! Her father, he came from, I think it was South Carolina, also. I know Dad did, because I went up there one time.

	M:	So your grandmother grew up here, as well?



	HL:	She died, though. Momma’s momma died when they were children, [Inaudible 01:08:34], they weren’t, well some of them, weren’t out of the house yet. When Mom was about sixteen, that’s when her mom died.

	M:	Do you know any stories about her?



	HL:	Well, she was the first child of the one whose name is the one that started the reunions, she was the daughter of that family and that was the





Timmons family and that’s how they got that in. Momma was her daughter.

	EL:	Did you have another? Yeah, this kind of— so, I’m just trying to conceptualize your time in Jacksonville, right? I know there was an incident with Martin Luther King in Jacksonville, did you ever have a chance when you were working with the NAACP to see any of their leaders or any of the famous civil rights leaders that we know?

	HL:	When I got involved, with NAACP work, I don’t recall, well, Martin Luther King is not, he’s one of the main civil rights workers but he was not connected with the NAACP even though when big things happened, it’s a civil rights activity then that’s when they all get together but you know, money— any kind of organization you have to have money if you gon’ make it work. And they were not, I mean, you had the NAACP, you had the—what’s the name of that group that—? I can’t think of the names, other civil rights groups, we’re not against each other but we have meetings, I mean it’s organized, really organized, and they, in order to keep anything going, some money is required. And they— even though one is not fighting against the other, but if you have an activity planned, you come and everybody else, too, especially if it’s a big something, but what I’m trying to say is that they were not, not that close, and NAACP didn’t start something and then draw you all in, but then we have people who work for more than just the one, too, because we don’t all do the same thing and certainly not at the same time. And but, no real animosity





between the groups but they just— this is one organization and this is another organization and they, I mean, NAACP is more organized than any other of the organizations, civil rights groups. But now we can come [Inaudible 01:13:43] both of them, you know, it’s not that kind that we have to have a secret or password or something like that.

	M:	Did you know Robert Saunders in the NAACP?



	HL:	Mmhm, Bob Saunders, yeah, out of Tampa. State Field Director. M:	Did you work with him much, or—?

	HL:	Not much, not all that much. Because he was still living when I was in Florida with the NAACP, but he wasn’t hired by the NAACP at that time, but he’s still a good member, I mean, one that we relied on and you have— your branch have some activities that all you have to do is call and got people like that were once active and now no longer active.

	M:	When you were working in the NAACP, I mean, what do you think are some of the most important things about organizing that, let’s say, younger people today should know?

	HL:	Well, one thing, if you’re working for the organization, you have some things that’s expected of you and your office, that is like membership in the NAACP, you have to work with branches that do something, do some kind of activity that would create income and if you employed by the NAACP, you, the employee, you expected to go to that branch in Jacksonville, in Brooksville, and work with them in getting it, maybe a banquet maybe some other thing, maybe bringing some important people





in. That’s the kind of thing it is because it’s, while people thought that, when I was trying to organize the Brooksville branch—well I forgot what I was gonna say about it, but if you have someone who’s on staff of the NAACP, that person is supposed to come in and help you work up your program and pull in different ones who work in the program otherwise but don’t have anything to do with setting up the activity that you’re about to do. And get the word out, that kind of thing. And, some activities require some money, and it’s organizational work.

	M:	So, this is kind of a back track— is there anything in particular from growing up that you think prepared you, kind of, for all these things that you did later in life, like any teacher or something, anything in this town that kind of—? Or any people, experiences, anything like that?

	HL:		No, because when I was growing up, people weren’t particular about having the younger people knowing anything and sometimes in your home the grownups talking about something and it can be about some problems, many times that’s what it is about— Black, White problems— because they’d tell you, “Go away, play! Go, get away,” they won’t let you hear what they say, think they’re not letting you, that they don’t have it under control, but, “Go out and play,” is the thing for you because they seem like even when telling who did something, who killed this man and what they say, and this White man did that, they don’t want you to know that because you know, I can see that even now because children will talk, if you hear something, they’ll get it and go with it just like the grownups if





they don’t know any better, “Mr. so and so, and so they called in somebody from another town and they gon’ do this, that and the other.” But, we didn’t know then that they were trying to protect us rather than being something that we wanted to know and talk about because children will talk if they hear it, they talk. Now, if they don’t hear it it’s some other story, but that’s the kind of thing that, as I said, Black-White, because my mom’s oldest brother, they said nobody knows what happened to him and you know, just disappeared and that was it. And they wouldn’t want the children to talk about it because no one, they don’t know the facts and don’t know what it was but all they know is that he disappeared, never heard from him again and that wasn’t the case before this happened.

	M:	Can I ask what his name was?



	HL:	W-L is what they called him. Larry, is his name. And he was the oldest one in that family and being, he was a boy, and the next person, the second child was Willy Larry, which, I mean, I don’t know what that “W” stands for but we used to talk about that, why didn’t they name him something else, W-L, but they’re not the same, but, children.

	M:	Did you know him?



	HL:	Oh, no! He was way before my time. But, people— during that time, they didn’t like to tell us, and then another thing, they didn’t like to talk about— be careful about who hears their conversations, especially when talking about any Black-White situation where good things [Inaudible 01:23:31] for bad things done, but nothing looks good because...





	EL:	You talked about how you’re reluctant to— back then, they were reluctant to kids about what was going on but you also said that you went to law school because you wanted to teach people about the law and their rights? Were you able to do that?

	HL:	Frankly, I didn’t get to the last part of what you were saying.



	EL:	Were you able to teach people about their rights after law school?



	HL:	Oh. No, well, I don’t know, especially when you put teaching in there that, you know, something formalized but I don’t— because we talked and it’s not anything like you got a group saying this, that and the other and it’s all about White people and that kind of thing, it would be— we don’t have anything like that, I mean, so far as I know of today.

	M:	So, can I ask, what do you think some of the Brooksville NAACP accomplishments have been since it started?

	HL:	Accomplishments—I don’t, uh—



	M:	Or whatever’s been most successful?



	HL:	Yeah, well, thing is, right now we don’t, we just— not much happening along these lines. And we don’t even, in fact— I don’t, I won’t say “we,” I will say “we,” we don’t even do that much anywhere, I mean, in meetings anymore. We don’t seem like we have the kind of things that wouldn’t give or wouldn’t let this person borrow money from the bank and other person not, you know, things like that. We don’t have that now, that I know of, and if we have it, I guess people wouldn’t talk about it as much but anything where there’s violence and something like that between races and





whatnot, they don’t have that, I mean, it’s not talked about and I don’t know what’s going behind your doors and this one’s doors.

	EL:	Do you wish that they were doing more? HL:	Doing more of what?

	EL:	More meetings, more outreach?



	HL:	Well, no, I wouldn’t wish for meetings as much as I would wish for, if something is happening, you letting somebody know about it so they can do something about it. But, I don’t know what’s happening, I wouldn’t know that needs reporting. [Doorbell ring].

	M:	We really appreciate you taking the time out to do this interview with us today.

	HL:	Say what?



	M:	We really appreciate your taking the time out—



	HL:	Oh, well, that’s alright. More people been by here today than I don’t know when. [Laughter].

	M:	That’s fair. Did you have any other—? EL:	Nope.

	M:	Yeah, so I mean, I think this is probably a good time to close the interview if that’s okay.

	HL:	Yeah, well.



	M:	Usually, at the end of an interview, we just ask if you have any final thoughts or reflections that you would want to add, or anything like that.





	HL:	Well, not really because I really, I wanted to respond to whatever you have that you know, that you want.

	M:	Okay, well I guess I can ask one last question. I noticed you’ve got a picture of Martin Luther King Jr. on the, next to the door.

	HL:	Dr. King?



	M:	Dr. King. And then you’ve got Dr. King on your shirt, as well, and we just, I mean— it was Martin Luther King Day just this past week. Do you have any thoughts on his legacy and anything to say about why he’s such an important figure to you?

	HL:	Well, I’m glad that there is such a thing as Martin Luther King Day because he did do so much and had to take so much, I mean, think about— I don’t think any of you were born then when he was beaten in the street by police and dogs would sit in the [Inaudible 01:30:23] of whatever he was in, they let the dogs out, you know, biting kind of dogs and in jail, he told pictures of things that were happening and was being said and that was during the time that it was happening and happened. So, our own people, they were so critical of Dr. King, so many of them didn’t think that was required but some of it was— not wanting to have him beaten up and they would say many times not to go there, don’t start nothing, don’t do that, out of fear that they may be mixed or something like that. But, you got to be— you don’t have to be there to feel it, but to see it and because nothing is happening to you, you home looking at it on TV and many times that’s when we come up you ought not to be there. I know my grandfather





used to say that, “Go home, let them go to their house and you go to your house,” that kind of thing. But, he stood all of that. And died so young, having done it. But, things happen and you have to take it as over with, hopefully over with now. You can be glad about it. Would you happen to know whether if Mrs. King, she’s still living? Don’t know that?

	EL:	She’s not. Coretta Scott King? HL:	Uh-huh.

	EL:	No, she’s not. HL:	Ah, she died.

	M:	I think that’s a good place to close then. Thank you very much for sitting down with us.

	HL:	I’m glad you wanted that information.







[End of interview]







	Transcribed by:	Laura Tamayo, October 5, 2021 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, October 6, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, October 7, 2021