AAHP 193; Demps; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 193 Charles Demps Interviewed by Ryan Morini on October 4, 2011

2 hours 47 minutes | 78 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Charles Demps talks about his life growing up in Tallahassee, Florida. The family eventually left Tallahasse and went to Perry Florida before settling down in Gainesville, Florida. While settling in Gainesville, Mr. Demps talks about how the town was like during the Jim Crow Era along with some prominent Black neighborhoods and how they have changed now.

Keywords: [African American History; Tallahassee, Florida; Gainesville, Florida; Jerkins High School; Perry, Florida; Lincoln High School]



AAHP 193

Interviewee: Charles Demps Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: October 4, 2011



	M:	This is Ryan Morini, I’m sitting here with Charles Demps at his home on—what is this, October 4th?

	D:	Yeah.



	M:	On Southwest 4th Street, in the Porters neighborhood. Could we start with your full name and your date of birth?

	D:	Charles Edward Demps, June the 3rd, 1945. M:	Okay, and you were born where?

	D:	Tallahassee, Florida.



	M:	Tallahassee. Oh, okay. Were you born in a hospital?



	D:	Yes, Florida A&M University Hospital. It was FAMC at that time, and it became a university later, but I was born in Florida A&M Hospital because they had a medical school at that time.

	M:	I see. And so, did all of you family live out there, or—?



	D:	My grandmother lived about three blocks from campus, FAMU campus, and my mother—that was my mother’s mother—and my father’ people from Perry, Florida. And him and my mother met him at a basketball tournament in Tallahassee, at FAMU. And they been married for sixty-six years. They still living.

	M:	Wow! [Laughter] That’s something.



	D:	So, that’s the basics of my foundation. M:	I see. They still living out in Tallahassee?

	D:	No they live here, out on 51st Street, Northwest, right down from the Gainesville Boys Club. Right behind Buchholz.





	M:	I see. So, what were your parents doing out in Tallahassee; like what was the occupation?

	D:	My mother, she was just a little—I don’t remember what kind of work she did.



She was about nineteen when they met, and my dad was about twenty-one. My father was like a basketball coach, school teacher in Perry, Florida.

	M:	For high school?



	D:	Yeah, high school, at Jerkins High School in Perry. That was the first Black high school there, and was the only Black; but he was their first football coach.

	M:	Okay.



	D:	It’s funny how life is. He was a football coach, and I was too, a high school football coach. And environmental kind of stuff, sometimes dictate your future. You know. Like, I was talking earlier about Carl Jung’s cultural archetypes, and how stuff happen? And you don’t plan it, it just happens, and that’s just the way that was; it happened. But anyway, so he was a football coach, teacher, she was—I think she was in school. Anyway, then I have other relatives there, my family come from a little place out of Tallahassee in Jefferson County called Fanlew, which was a turpentine kind of still thing, where they did turpentine and cut lumber. And my uncles and grandmother worked in the turpentine industry, and then they moved to Tallahassee. And my father’s side, his peoples was out of Madison County and Taylor County. And matter of fact, I have a lot of ancestors in Taylor and Madison County; Quitman, Georgia, all up in through there. You find a lot of that name; Demps is very strong. And like, in relation to the story of it, this man had a lot of sons. And during the early, say in the





nineteenth century, right after slavery which was like what 1865, something like that?

	M:	Thereabouts.



	D:	Right, and had a lot of sons and—they went out and had a lot of sons, it’s a lot of boys in this family, and the things just multiplied. And they went out, had a lot of children. But the name Demps was supposed to’ve been Dempsey D-E-M-P-S- E-Y, and at the of the Civil War the name was changed to D-E-M-P-S. So, I don’t know who he was. That story is because we have a family reunion every two years, a Demps family reunion, grand reunion; and people come from all over the world to it. But only the people that are there, Negro or Black, because if you see a Demps, he’s going be Black or either he’s going to be mixed, like Wills Demps in the NFL that played with the Baltimore Ravens; and he’s been traded somewhere now, I don’t know who he play for now. I met him when he was like nine years old. His father came to a reunion here in Jacksonville, and he was a little kid, but they from California. And his mother was a Caucasian lady. I remember throwing football with him, and playing and talking to him. And then here, like, what? Fifteen, twelve years later, I see him on the NFL. I say, “Well, that’s my fam!” You know? “Little cousin!” The guy that played with the Gators, Jeff Demps, I haven’t talked to him that much; I’ve met him. But we are relatives, I know that. Anyway, so that’s the union of my parents that came together in Tallahassee, Florida.

	M:	I see. What are their names?







D:

My father’ name Edward Demps and my mother’ name Susie Mae Demps—



Susie Mae Davis Demps.

M:

She was a Mae Davis Demps.

D:

Yeah.

M:

Are you a junior then, or are you just—?

D:

No, no I’m just a Charles.

M:

Oh, I’m sorry—

D:

Edward is the middle—

M:

Got it, got it backwards.

D:

That’s okay. I’m not a junior. My son is Brian Edward, so Edward is the middle.

M:

I see.

D:

So we have our own identity, but Edward is the base with everybody.

M:

Okay. And how many children do you have?

D:

Me?

M:

Yeah.

D:

I have three.

M:

Three.

D:

Two girls and a boy and five grandchildren, three girls and two boys.

M:

Sizeable family.

D:

Yeah, yeah. I’m not married. I was married, but I haven’t been married—about



twenty-nine years I been a bachelor. I’m not regretting it. [Laughter]

M:

Understandable. Okay so your family was coaching at Jerkins, sorry, so you



grew up in Tallahassee I guess or just outside of it?





	D:	Well, yeah the way I grew up in Tallahassee is a long story, you want to hear it? M:	Let’s hear it.

	D:	[Laughter] From a baby, we stayed in—I stayed in Tallahassee with my mother to my momma’ house for—I don’t know how old I was, I don’t remember. They talk about it—I can’t give you the age but I do know that I stayed in Perry as a little boy growing up like that. I tell them, but they don’t think I be telling the truth. I tell them now that I can remember riding the bus to a football game with my father.

But what happened was that bus would break down—I don’t give a damn where they went. [Laughter] Everywhere they went, the buses would break down, man! Like, they used to go to St. Augustine—from Perry—St. Augustine, Hastings, you know, around. Where else they would go? Probably over to Madison, Cross City, different places to play. And I remember the bus used to break down, but we left Perry and moved to Gainesville when I was four years old in 1949. [19]49 right? We’ve been here ever since. My father was on his way to Miami to look for a job. My grandmother lived here in Gainesville so we stopped here to visit with her and never left.

	M:	And what was your grandmother’s name?



	D:	Lilly Mae Burney. She was a unique lady. She raised three boys: my father, myself, and my son. I mean, by raising them, she raised my father; my parents and her raised me; and with my son, from the time he was, I reckon six weeks old, she used to keep him during the day. She was his babysitter ‘til he started school. And then when he started school, he would come back to her house. And you know, he’d come home and spend the night with us and stuff, but he spent a





lot of time there, a fair amount of time. So, she only had, I reckon—and then I had a granddaughter. I was her only grandson ‘cause I’m the only son. My father was the only son, and my son is the only son. So, we didn’t have a lot of boys, just one.

	M:	Where did your grandmother lived exactly? She lived in this neighborhood? D:	She lived two blocks over.

	M:	Two blocks?



	D:	Yeah one block—one, two—two streets over, coming that way, on a straight shot. You can see the house from the road there, on the other side over there. Yeah I was like four years old when I came to Gainesville. That’s why I’ve watched Gainesville grow; I’ve seen a lot happen. And I’ve watched Porters go from thriving to a ghost town, that’s what it is. It’s not many people here like it used to be. It’s frightening at night, because you used to hearing somebody using some profanity, or somebody walking, or a gunshot; now it so quiet, you can’t sleep because it’s quiet. [Laughter] Yeah.

	M:	I mean, I don’t know how well you’d remember when you were four exactly, but just, what did Porters look like around the time you were growing up? I mean, what was the neighborhood like?

	D:	Use your imagination. You been through this neighborhood before, just walking and riding a bicycle?

	M:	Little bit, yeah.



	D:	Every empty lot that you saw? It was a house there. Or houses there. And each house, at least three, to four, to five people lived in that house. So now what you





got per block, in relation to the number of people that lived per block, we had a lot of people living. See like, in this house, this really a family house, and I stay and just keep it up and stuff. But it was like—one, two, three, four, five—five in here. And like, I mean, we were happy, and this was like we were living in the Waldorf Astoria, you know. But this was built. My father built this in in 1961. We lived over on Depot, right at Depot and 3rd, at the intersection there where they have those houses that they putting up. They got a set of houses on Depot and 3rd Street, up there. You know what I’m talking about?

	M:	I think so, I think so.



	D:	Yeah, they two-story, probably a hundred thousand they probably asking for them, something like that. Affordable homes. We lived over there before we moved over here. But my grandmother, she lived over there, and going back to the Porters community, it was a thriving place, man. Like, people went to work, basically, you had Atkins Crate Company, which we call the Crate Mill. It was down there where on Main Street—oh, what’s the name of that place? Main Street, on the east side of Main, South Main, there’s a company there that’s now—it used to be Longfellow, Long—Strongfellow used to be the name of the company. It’s another company there now. But that was a crate mill there, they made crates for produce. And a lot of the ladies in the communities worked there. My momma worked there, when we first come here, and they would go to work with a hat on they head, and maybe some kind of scarf on they head. They would have on a dress, but underneath their dress they had on some jeans or pants.

They would have sweaters, and I reckon stuffed ‘em around their face to keep





the sawdust out they face and stuff like that. And a whistle would blow. See, this community was adjacent to the industrial area of Gainesville that had about four or five cotton gins. On the other side of Depot over there where—there’s a cement plant on the other side of Depot, south, south side of Depot. There was a ice house right at 3rd and Depot in the quadrant over here, which would be on the southwest side of 3rd Street right there. You ever see this flat, concrete thing over there? It’s a flat concrete up—on this side, you got the touring service, and right across from the touring service, there’s a big slab of concrete there.

	M:	Yeah, I think I know what you mean.



	D:	And that used to be a ice house where a lot of trucks used to come in. The tandem fourteen wheelers, eighteen wheelers. They would come there and back up and get ice. I was a boy, I grew up watching that. And they would get ice and sometime they’d be lined up all the way down Third Street, going in there to get ice because they didn’t have refrigerated cars. During that time when they hauled that stuff, they take the ice and put it on a, had a rolling belt, a escalator belt that would take the ice up to the truck and dump it off in the—they had a door at the top of the trailer, and they had a conveyor, automatic thing, that brought the ice up and dumped it in there. That’s the way they—until they got refrigerated box cars. Not box cars—well, box cars, too, because sometime I think they put it in the train, the train come there and they’ll drop it in the box cars, in the top they was specially made for that. But before that time, they had like cotton gins in that area. And the train depot, that’s what Depot named after: the depot was across— the intersection of Main and Depot, there’s an old depot building there. They





used to do different stuff down there, haul produce and other kind of stuff. And as a kid growing up on Third and Depot there, the train would put me asleep at night. It will. It’s like rain; it has some kind of psychological thing on you. Because once they start rolling, you know, they have a rhythm: dun-dun-dun-dun, dun- dun, dun-dun-dun-dun-dun, dun-dun-dun-dun-dun. That would be that metal, and you could hear it here like, dun-dun-dun-dun. I reckon certain places where it do like that, and it would get a rhythm. But the whole—you feel it, the whole, your house be—you feel it because of the, I reckon amount of weight and stuff. And sometime it might take forty-five minutes, an hour to pass. Because it probably be like from here all the way to Archer. Freight train.

	M:	Wow.



	D:	Yeah. So coming back to the community now; but it was a thriving place with a lot—by you not being able to—by being right during Jim Crow—and you know what Jim Crow is, right?

	M:	Oh, yeah.



	D:	All right. During Jim Crow and right after Jim Crow, this neighborhood thrived because this is the place where you could come and be yourself, and do the things whichever you wanted to do. That’s how Porter’s had a bad name, because we had a lot of outside people would come over to our little entertainment places that we had. And the going drink at that time probably was moonshine. Some kind of alcoholic beverage, and basically moonshine. It was strong. Gainesville was not a wet county; in other words, you couldn’t buy liquor in Alachua County. You had to go to what they called the county line, and you





had to go to, like—you either had to go to Marion County. Most people went to Marion County down 441. When you get on 441, at the junction of Marion County and Alachua County on the right there, it’s a purple and white building now, the liquor place used to be a bar. And people from here would go there. But if you sold liquor, like I’ma bootleg, you know, and I sell out my house, well, you call that “seal liquor.” You know, because it had a seal on it. Moonshine was just “shine,” but I want some seal liquor. And seal liquor was regular alcohol that you would buy from a—where they sell liquor at. And then, like now people play the lottery. During that time, people played numbers. But it was like bootleg numbers. Some people—I still don’t understand, I’m going find this out, why they called it “bolita”—but bolita was one of the words that was used, and Cupid was the other word that was used. Now, how they got the number, I don’t know. I heard so many stories on it. But people have a tendency of trying to make a lot off a little; that’s really a sucker, that’s how suckers are made, because you think you getting something for nothing. But people played numbers a lot around here. And I won’t say every other house, but certain houses in the community was the people who took care of that for you. And people had a lot of respect during that time. And everybody wasn’t straight; you know, a lot of the people who sold liquor and did the numbers, they were big church members. But everybody had a little hustle, something that they was doing to try to make ends meet. It would be a nice story to tell about this neighborhood, because a lot of people that lived in other neighborhoods came from this neighborhood. See, in about 1960,1961, [19]62, [19]63, [19]64, [19]65, how many years is that?





	M:	Starting from [19]61?



	D:	Yeah, I don’t know if you writing it out because you writing them down. M:	Oh, no.

	D:	[19]61, [196]2, [196]3, [196]4, [196]5, about five years. Lincoln Estate—you heard of Lincoln Estate? That’s the community behind Lincoln school, all that community back over there. Lincoln Estate. Duval Heights, there’s a place called Duval; 8th Avenue, all the way East 8th Avenue. You know where that is? Where most of the Blacks live across Waldo Road.

	M:	Mmhm.



	D:	You know where that is? M:	Yeah.

	D:	You know where Citizen’s Field, football field? Where they place football on Waldo Road.

	M:	Citizen’s Field.



	D:	Citizen’s Field is on 8th Avenue. You know where 8th Avenue is? M:	Oh, yeah.

	D:	Take 8th Avenue in your mind and go east as far as you can. M:	Okay. And then where’s the field, exactly?

	D:	The field is going to be in the corner of 8th Avenue and Waldo Road. It’s going to be on the north, north corner.

	M:	Oh okay, I think I know what you’re talking about. D:	Where the pool—it was a swimming pool out there. M:	Okay.





	D:	Matter of fact, it’s a city pool really, but they have a westside pool. But they have a pool out there. You know where the swimming pool is out there?

	M:	I think I’m better with the field. I think I can pick up seeing that.



	D:	The field and the pool is right across from each other. You know where the Super Walmart?

	M:	Yeah, yeah.



	D:	You been to that before?



	M:	I haven’t been, I’ve driven past it.



	D:	Have you ever been into East Gainesville before? M:	Little bit, little bit.

	D:	You’ve been out east on—what I was saying, the reason I’m saying that’s because most of the people go out there because of the football field, if you in the football, the high school ball. That’s where all the high school play, at that field there. Well anyway, you cross that road, you cross Waldo Road, cross it on 8th Avenue and go east, you get into a Black majority. That’s a totally Black community. And you go deep, and there’s an elementary school, Duval. And behind the elementary school, there’s a housing project that was part of those five years that I was talking about. And it’s called Duval Heights. So, what happens is that most of the people that moved to—not most of them—a lot of them that moved to Duval and moved to Lincoln Estates, which was the place behind Lincoln, come out of this neighborhood. A lot of people come out of this neighborhood and move there. But most people in this neighborhood—we was the exception, and some other, not many other people; most of those people still





here, too—that own their own property, but most of those people were renting. They were renting the houses although, like I say, every lot had somebody, but most of the people who owned those lots were Caucasians. It’s a few Blacks who own this, but a reason is when that man sold land, he first sold it to some Black people or a family that had no—over here off 6th Street between—yeah, off 6th Street. And I think the lady say her grandmother paid him a dollar and a quarter a week until they paid off the land, and she had the deed and everything.

	M:	What’s their family name?



	D:	She was a Leath, L-E-A-T-H. M:	Leath, okay.

	D:	You ever heard of that name before?



	M:	Well Janie was telling me actually, that I should talk to them. I think Mamie Leath.



	D:	She the main, that’s the name of the [inaudible 25:28]. [Laughter] Yeah, she know. That’s the Porters person. Mamie Leath know everything. Mamie Leath know something, she even know what she don’t supposed to know. But she won’t tell you; she’ll tell me. [Laughter] She would enjoy that, she would be glad to do it, Mamie Lee would. Yep. But anyway, you had a thriving community.

People went to work, and as I say, you had people work to the crate mill, men and women, basically women. Men had different types of—you had a lot of guys who were carpenters, you had a lot of cement finishers, and a lot brick masons at that time, which now I don’t know how much [inaudible 26:22]. But anyway, had those kind of people who worked in the building construction kind of things; pastors, a lot of guys did that kind of work. A few mechanics. My great





granddaddy was a mechanic. And so, on Friday, Friday was like a special day in this community, because everybody off from work, you done got paid. People go to the store, grocery store. We had one, two, three; we had three little community grocery stores in this community. You had one on Depot and 3rd Street right there the corner, and then you had another one right here that has a tin top on 7th place here. There’s a tin building that’s a little storefront church now; that was a store. You had another store here—oh, there were four—you had another store over here on the corner of 5th Avenue, that’s 5th Avenue and 5th Terrace at the corner, and there was another one across from the S & S Cleaner here. And all these stores was run by Caucasian men. What would happen is that you go there, and you would buy stuff, and your parent had credit. You know, they had a little book, you write it down, and when they get paid, they would pay off they debt. You go get stuff like commodities for cooking; they sold meat sometime; you would buy canned goods, produce, fruit, vegetables and stuff; they had all that kind of stuff—the eggs. Stuff like that. That would tide you through; you know, little—you might need some sugar or flour, but when you had your big staples, you would either go to the A&P, which was on 4th Avenue and 6th Street, or you would go to—there’s a place uptown where the city, I think that’s where the city municipal building, where they have city meetings uptown there. It was called the Margaret Ann, that was another food store. But the little community stores, you just picked up little staples there that you would need through the week. And as I said, on Fridays, oh man, that was a big day. You take your money and go get your numbers, because the numbers come out on Saturday





morning; go play the number, and take your bath, eat, whatever. Whatever activities people did. And when Friday night came, they had a place down there called—they call that? It wasn’t Juke Alley, it was—golly! Anyway, they had a lot of little places where they sold beer, you could get you some shine, or play music, dance, to let the weekend present itself because you done worked hard all this week and everything. And most households that had a man in them— during that time, most households did have a man in them. As I’m thinking about that, they did. There’s usually a man that helped raise children during those days, most of the time. Not all the time, but most of the time, there was a Black man in a house with the kids and the momma. A little different now. It’s much different.

But anyway, they would take their—whatever they were going to take home to the wife or the woman, whoever, and they may have take theirs and go down the street as we called it, around the corner, and drank it up. Or sometimes they get drunk and people roll them, take they money, they don’t know what happened.

Wake up and they been robbed. [Laughter] Not getting beat up, just money took out and stuff like that. Dances, having fun. Saturday, same thing. Sunday, you go to church. And Monday you know, stormy Monday, you got to go to work. [Laughter] But it was a lot of fun. As a kid growing up in this neighborhood, I liked athletics. And most of my friends, that’s what we did. We would play football, sandlot football. We played in a road, because the grader would through once a week and grade the road; it wasn’t paved. It was dirt. And that was fun, man.

See, we might have fifteen on one side. It’d be a lot of us. And we played tackle football. We played touch sometimes, but basically, we liked to tackle. And if we





had opportunity a field, somewhere we could play, oh that was like—oh man, it was awesome. We used to jump the fence at Citizens Field on Sundays and play football, different communities used to play the other community. We did a lot of this stuff like shooting BB guns, shooting birds. And down in the branch down here on 6th Street? Behind the basketball court, there’s a branch. I forgot, I should know the name of that branch, I can’t think of it. Damn. But anyway, we would go back there and play in the woods, and hunt ‘coons, and cage them, and then we get the coon and kill him. We’ll stab them to death, we mutilated them. [Laughter] We’ll mutilate him. We’ll stab him to death, once we get him in the cage! Oh, boy. We didn’t have a pool, so we would swim in the—serious, man, it’s one of them boys ain’t dead, there. Some of them have, any of them? No, them boys still around. That was like a runoff from Alachua General, ran out a pipe, and it ran under this place over here off of 5th Avenue and 6th Street on the other side over there. And they would go back there and swim, and that’s it. And nobody never caught disease or anything. Yes. I wouldn’t get in it, and the reason I wouldn’t swim, because my father would kick my behind. And you knew you’d been there, because your skin going be ashy, and your eyes were going be red; it was a telltale. And then, I didn’t like the way it smelled. So I would go down there with my friends, but I wouldn’t get in that water, you know? We had special times like Easter where all the people would dress in their nice little clothes on Sunday, then go to church. Celebrating Easter, that was a big thing. I think one of the biggest activities in the Black community during those times, especially in the South, was May Day. And some people was the—fifth of May? Man. I think it was





the fifth of May. That’s when the Black people in Florida knew that slavery was over with. See, in Texas, it’s called Juneteenth. Because it was in June somewhere, I reckon between the thirteenth and the nineteenth. But they say “Juneteenth,” because they don’t know the exact date. But it was in that time period that they knew about it. So they had—I’m sorry, it’s the twentieth of May, that’s what it is. The twentieth of May. And there was great celebrations in Florida on the twentieth of May, and we called it May Day here in Gainesville. And the kids would dress in white, and the school, they would have like—different classes would do different kinds of things; dance, or sing, or something like that. And then there was a pole. You would plait that pole. It’s called “plaiting the Maypole.” And I really don’t know what that signified, but you plaited it; maybe twelve kids, or maybe more than that, with these poles in the middle and these strings from the pole all the way around. And they would go up under each other, and one would come up under each other, until they plait that pole, man. It’s a unique thing, that that was done. Part of that come from that continent. And I don’t know the exact whatever, but it did. I know that’s where it come from. And that was a big thing: Easter and May Day, because that was like the spring of the year. And Christmas always was a great thing, you know, everywhere. Those were two religious celebrations that were very important in the Black community: Easter and Christmas. They teach you in church the reasons for that, but basically, when the Black man came to America, he wasn’t a Christian. He was Islamic; that’s what most of those people were. If they wasn’t Islamic—but that’s what most of them were. And then converted over into Christianity. But that was a





oppression in that, that’s another whole story. So that’s basically about this community. We used to walk to school, we had to walk from here to Williams Elementary. We walked from here to Lincoln. That’s where I went in high school. Some kids after me went over to A. Quinn Jones to the elementary school.

People before me went to A. Quinn Jones—which is old Lincoln, it’s Lincoln, was Lincoln High School—went over there to school, and then we started riding the bus when I was in the tenth grade. But all those other years, I walked to school— from here.

	M:	A lot of walking.



	D:	Yeah, it’s over a mile. We had to do it rain or shine; cold or not cold.



	M:	I mean, it sounds like there was a lot of adult activity on the weekends. What was your position in that as a kid? I mean, you had to stay home? Or were there places you would play on Friday night?

	D:	On Fridays, we watched TV. I was like family-orientated in being raised, I was with my family a lot. On Friday nights we would go visit another family that lived across Depot—well across 6th Street. When you cross 6th Street off Depot, you go down a hill, like, right?

	M:	Mmhm.



	D:	You know, the basketball court right over there. The basketball court is north of you on 6th right there. Over on Depot. Depot and 6th Street, know where the intersection is? In my mind—

	M:	Kind of, I can kind of see it.





	D:	Yeah. When I’m saying these things, I be thinking you really know it, but you don’t know.

	M:	Sometimes I know and sometimes I don’t, but— D:	You know where Depot is over there?

	M:	Yeah, yeah.



	D:	You know where 6th Street goes north—I mean, north and south? M:	Mmhm.

	D:	And Depot go east and west. It’s the intersection right there at the light. And across the street, there’s a basketball court.

	M:	Okay. I can’t picture it but I’m trusting you. D:	You can’t?

	M:	I kind of picture going down that way; I can’t picture the court, though.



	D:	Okay well anyway, right behind there is a—used to be a group of houses. They called that community Williams Quarters. And we would go down to Williams Quarters on Friday nights and watch a TV show called West Point. It was about the West Point Academy. And we didn’t have a TV at that time, but our friend did. And we would go down there and watch TV. They had kids my age, some sons so we was friends, and my parents was friends with their parents. And that was a Friday night thing with us, that’s what we did. Then when we finally got a TV, Friday nights, Rawhide came on. Clint Eastwood, Mr. Favor, Wishbone, Pete and them boys. Rawhide; we watched TV. I’m trying to think: did Perry Mason come on Friday or Saturday night? But anyway, watched TV. This was like in about 1956, watched TV. And when I become older, I was involved in sports like





basketball. I love football, but my body wasn’t—you know, my frame wasn’t there, and I wasn’t stupid. [Laughter] I still love football, I love it. But I would go to the high schools games. Mostly, during that time our games was on Thursday nights because they White folks had to play on Friday night. Every now and then, we had a Friday night game, but when we played high schools here, we played Thursday nights, if you play at home. Watched TV, then Saturday morning when I get up, I wouldd get up, I would rake the yard; mop the front and the back porch; clean my room; wash out my tennises, sneakers, or whatever shirt I wanted to wear to the theatre that day; hang it on the line and—. See, in the South, it’s warm out here, right? Most of the year. And you could hang something out there this morning, and it be dry by twelve o’clock. So then I would do that, iron my stuff, and go to the movie at three and stay all day. Stay ‘til the sun go down. Then I had to be home. Before the sun go down, I’d be home. Then I’d come home and watch TV or either some friends would go around to some friends’ house and we’d have a party, dancing. We didn’t fight much during that time. We wasn’t into that. We liked girls, man! [Laughter] We were lovers! And then on Sundays, you would get up and go to church. That wasn’t a—you did that, that was part of that. It wasn’t no question that you was going do that.

Children had their place during those days. You couldn’t participate in adult activity. You wouldn’t even be around adults. I wasn’t allowed to go around to where the juke joints were. I wasn’t allowed to be on that road. Find out, was going to be child abuse, which happened. [Laughter] So children had their place, and adults had theirs. It’s a respect thing which you don’t have now. And the one





thing that happened that was very unique during those days—like, you sitting on this porch, and a kid walk by there and see you, they say, “How you doing?” You say, “I’m all right, baby.” And then they would go on down the road. They’ll come back, they say, “How ya’ll?” And you speak again. I mean, it was just that kind of thing. If you walked down that road and didn’t speak to an adult—you could be an adult and don’t speak—that was like a disrespectful thing. And people who from that time, they like that now. ‘Cause I’m like that. I pass by somebody, and do that—especially if you’re a Black person—and you don’t give me no response back to me? I mean it don’t have to be nothing but that, but it’s not necessary that you do that. You don’t know me. But that’s part of the culture that we came up in. So when you don’t do that to me, I can’t stand you, right? [Laughter] I don’t like you, you’re disrespectful, because you don’t know the process, you don’t understand. And a lot of the youth now, they don’t understand. They don’t understand, and you can’t tell them nothing. And I feel very sorry for them.

Really. But I do what I can sometimes, I volunteer; I teach children how to play chess. I’m pretty good at it I think. But by me being the teacher, it’s an occupational thing, it’s an occupational hazard; I don’t know what it is, I just enjoy teaching. I like to explain stuff to people, I like to see—it’s like taking off oysters, oysters. You know what oyster is? The—shellfish, oyster.

	M:	Yeah, yeah. Yeah.



D:  I still got the Southern thing. Although I been educated, I just never was able to articulate the English language pretty, but I probably could articulate some kind of African dialect good. I bet I could if I learned it, because the tone—





	M:	You talk it just fine.



	D:	I do? Okay. But anyway, man, I like to take a oyster and open it up, and see the pearl in it. Because everything is a pearl, but you got to find it. And I’ve seen that happen with children. I watched—I did two generations when I was teaching. And I basically coached two generations of fathers and sons, and the uniqueness of that, that’s a God thing. I mean, it’s like them horses down there in Ocala, man.

It’s a bloodline, and you can see—going back to Carl Jung, you can see certain characteristics that people have that they parents had, and stuff like that, man. So I enjoy seeing a kid maybe not being able to understand this game when he first start, but then through trial and error and from the basics, from the beginning, and seeing them learn how to strategize, and think ahead, and plan, and manipulate. Because that’s the way life is. And just even being able to control those squares, because in life you got to be able to control your life, and make decisions. So, that turned me on. But I have a problem because the generations now, it’s very difficult to do anything with them, because you can’t tell them nothing. They know everything, but they don’t know nothing. They almost— I ain’t going do that, I ain’t going say that, but they need to know what they don’t know and you can’t tell them. So, that’s why I enjoy the teaching thing. But I don’t do much with kids like I used to. I used to do a lot of coaching. That’s what my passion, really. And football and track. But it’s another generation, man. You have a window when they sending those spaceships out, what the things is?

Them shuttles. And they say, “We got a window for so-and-so-and-so a time.” Well when the time ain’t right, that window close; you can’t go. But when that





window open, you got to go through there. Well, that’s the way I believe in relation to generation, that generation gap thing? That’s a window. After a certain point, if you’re not equal up to the technology that’s going on—like, we got a lot of different technology now. So basically, the kind of kids we have, we have virtual reality kids. They got another reality. Hell, I sit down there and play with the computer, or I sit there and play a computer game? Virtual reality. And I make people run, jump, I kill people—bam-bam-bam-bam-bam-bam-bam-bam-bam! I fly in my helicopter. So now, my concept of what I’m seeing is something that’s been manmade through the process of trigonometry, and calculus, and algebra, where they make objects move from this point to that point. And, I mean, all this is almost synthetic, man, but it’s like another kind of synthetic; not chemically- synthetic, but reality-synthetic. So now, you got to deal with those kind of kids and try to reach them. So in order to reach them, you got to get on their level or go to where they at, or whatever. But hell, I’m like—if this boy would be ten, I’m fifty years older than him. You know. It’s supposed to be, through the process, somebody that’s younger than me or closer to his generation that’d be able to do that with him. But then when I got to come and do it—I mean, I could do a pretty job to a degree, but then there’s another degree of the psychological aspect of where he is in reaching him that, I’m not here. I could get to him maybe if I had a earring in my ear. But my generation, some of them wear earrings, but I don’t. Or if I had tattoo or something like that, a piercing in my tongue or in my nose that would make them trust me a little because he seems similar to me, do you understand where I’m coming from?





	M:	Mmhm.



	D:	I talk about the music that he listen to, or I know about certain slangs that exist in his culture and the people that—I used to know that kind of stuff, being a coach. I’d be around kids, and I knew about music, I knew the slangs, dances. All of the latest dances, I used to could do them, because I was very athletic for my age.

And I could run. About fifty-three, I started having problems running, because I was a hurdle coach, teach hurdles. And this knee, [slaps knee] I need a knee transplant, but I won’t go get it. This was my trail leg. This my lead leg, my trail leg, and it’s bad. Because doing that so much through the years, and teaching that, and doing that. But anyway, it’s just—I don’t know how they going be able to reach this generation. A friend of mine say, “Man you in a position, you supposed to be the little book about that, and all like that right there.” Well, maybe, but I don’t know the answer because I don’t have it. It’s at a different time period. I know what I see; you know I see stuff, but a lot of times we see the problem but we can’t fix it. But we see the problem. And I see it, I don’t know how to fix it. I’ve tried, I’ve done a lot in relation to volunteering and mentoring boys. We had a mentoring group at my church, and all those kids in college now. We started off with about twelve boys; all of them in college except two. We got two still in high school. And I think that’s pretty good. All of them have goals that are very high like the stars. If you can reach the stars—you might not never reach it, but hell, if you keep trying you can be among them. And that’s up there. But in relation to—I kind of got off the subject ,which I don’t really do, I told you that—

	M:	No, it’s fine.





	D:	But in relation to reaching these kinds, this is the twenty-first century, and this is another time period. Technology is wow! You’ve seen my TV in there. Well that’s one of them smart TVs, and I got a Blu-ray. I ain’t even got into it; I’m scared! [Laughter] I know I’m going crazy, I already know that. And the guy going come and put my wireless in Friday; I think it goes with the TV, there’s a wireless thing I need. My TV went bad, so I said, “I’m getting another TV, let me get one of them new flatscreens.” So I went out there and looked, “Oh okay, this 3-D, I like that, too,” ‘cause the way they got me, they showed me a football game on a TV they had in 3-D. I said, “Yeah!” [Laughter] Suckered me. And the girl that waited on me, she was a beautiful little girl from somewhere in South America, and she was so nice. And I say, “Will I need this?” And she say, “Oh no, you need this, and this, and this, and this,” and then, so then I say, “So, what I need to upgrade anyway?” So then I went and did that. But it’s so much stuff on there; I haven’t even read the manuals yet. [Laughter] I just know how to turn it on and off, and change to the high definition. And once I get on high definition I’m like, “Wow, football, it look like it in 3-D, but it’s just high definition.” You can see everything, man. But what I’m saying is that technology, time; everything move forward.

When I say that it’s the past, it’s that fast. You live in a forward movement. If you start try to back up or whatever, you lose time, and time is a continuous thing, it don’t lose itself. It just moves, and you have to move with the flow. So it’s like everything has a mission, has a purpose, that it’s there; a purpose-driven life.

And it is. So you got to find out what your purpose is. And that you not just here just to be here; it’s a reason that the trees, the dirt, the ant, the bee, the hyena,





everything has a purpose and a function. And you have one, but you have to find it—it could be a positive thing. And then you have to find out or realize that basically we are spiritual beings, because the spiritual thing come from that mind, and the mind is the most powerful thing that we have. So if you develop that, it creates other stuff through your manifestation of thinking about whatever it is that you wanna do. And you just go and put forth your time and do it, and it’ll become. You make stuff; you can make it be. Like, Porters? Yeah, it used to be different. But the key is, most of the people that was here, they didn’t have any power; they didn’t have no land. They lived here, but they didn’t own nothing. As far as a political kind of thing, me and Janie, we worked on little political stuff around here in relation to our community. There are certain things that’s in this community that we participate in to develop through the city commission. You know, Rodney Long, a guy named Paul White, Avis Butler, all these people was working for something called OASIS Project, which is supposed to be here in Porters. If you look at Porters, it’s like an oasis; we have more trees than a lot of other places.

Did you notice that?



	M:	I did notice that, actually.



	D:	Okay. But what this used to be, it used to be a pecan orchard. You could go anywhere and find a pecan tree, there’s pecan trees all around here. There’s a big one right here, three back there, one right there, one over there; two had been torn down, been cut down over there. And then you go down to the other part of this community, you see pecan trees and oak trees. Like, the community over here is called “Porters Oaks.” They look like condominiums over here, you





know what I’m talking about? The grey buildings? It’s a community right here on the left, buildings, they’re like apartments. They named those Porters Oaks— yeah, Porters Oaks. They was going name them Laurel Oaks because those are Laurel Oak trees, okay? So, I was on that committee, and I told them, I say, “No, no, you got to put Porters on there.” So they called it Porters Oaks instead of Laurel Oaks, so they have the identity of the community. But the community center is a project. These houses over here right in front of me, that’s a project of that time; down there, it’s a cul-de-sac down there, and on the other street over there, it’s Porters Oaks and all of that. But what it was is that—it still could’ve been different. Now, the city has spent a lot of money on 3rd Street right there; 3rd Street and 5th Avenue look identical to each other, Northwest 5th Avenue and 3rd Street. They got some kind of project going on; it look pretty good. They have sidewalks on both sides of the road. They going to take the lamps down—I mean they have lamps at night instead of the street lights, and I think they’re gonna to take all of the electrical. Because if you look over in this street, you don’t see no wires running. They all in the ground, so they going put them in ground and stuff like that. But, you know.

	M:	I mean, you were saying a lot of people didn’t own their property around here; did people have businesses other than the—?

	D:	I said a lot of people; some people did, some people didn’t. Because a lot of people was renting from White landlords. And it was like a lot of little, small houses, shotgun houses, kind of like that. You had business people here, a man named Al Higgins, H-I-G-G-I-N-S. He was an entrepreneur type of Black man,





come here from South Carolina. He had a business around that corner around there. He built a building with three segments to it. He had a store on one side, a pool on one side, and a café and parlor, and it was right around that corner right there. Then across the street, that was a place called Ike’s; it was [inaudible 59:58] before then. Mamie Lee know about all that kind of stuff; she can tell you that. Mamie Lee can call it. I ought to send you to, I ought to take you to Mamie Lee. But anyway, I have to find out how she doing, because she’s on a respirator kind of thing now.

	M:	Oh yeah, oh yeah.



D:  Yeah. There was once a drycleaner that cleaned clothes around there; you had restaurants. A lot of the Black businesses was on the other side of town over in the Pleasant Street area. You know the Pleasant Street area right?

M:   Oh yeah.



	D:	Okay, over there. And a lot of—you had different kinds of entertainment according to probably—we had class and our thing, too, classifications; upper, middle, and lower. Basically the upper people was like educators, and probably the best job you could get was being a school teacher. That was a pretty good job. Wasn’t a lot of money, but it was a security with you. Those people had a different outlook on life. And then you had people who might have just been common labor kind of people; they had a different thing. And then, you had some people—as far as “lower,” I don’t know what lower was, because we were low.

You know, we were poor. We spelt “poor” P-O. You know, it’s—. [Laughter] We couldn’t put no “r” on it, we was beyond that, we wasn’t—we was so far down, we





could reach up and touch the bottom. But we’ve come a long ways, and I know a lot of people did. And a lot of kids over here, lot of children, plenty kids. And we didn’t have much, we made our toys. We enjoyed each other, man. When you come home from school, you take our shoes off. And when it’s hot, you don’t wear shoes. You wore shoes to school; come home and get out your school clothing, and get barefooted, and play cowboy and Indians, and football, and basketball. And mom and daddy, they would just have fun, man. Any other questions? What else?

	M:	Sure, sure.



	D:	Go ahead.



	M:	Well, couple of minor questions: you mentioned a theatre, which theatre did you go to?

	D:	It’s called the Rose Theater on 5th Avenue; you’ve heard of that. M:	Mmhm.

	D:	You done interviewed a lot of other people; that’s why I told you on the phone, man, this stuff probably going be redundant. It’s going to be a lot of stuff, probably different from some stuff I said. I went into some philosophical stuff that I’ve been thinking about.

	M:	Well you’d be surprised about the differences for—to you, it might look the same because you’re familiar with it, and you’re used to that sort—for people who didn’t grow up here—

	D:	How many interviews have you done? M:	Me, personally?





	D:	Yeah, you.



	M:	I haven’t really counted. D:	Just an estimate, maybe.

	M:	A dozen, maybe, maybe a little more than that. I’ve talked to people who haven’t done an interview with, too; might be more than that.

	D:	Okay.



	M:	But we’ve got 180 in the collection, it might be more than that. We got a hundred total.

	D:	All right. I probably know a lot of ‘em. I know all them, boy, I know they in there.



Yeah, okay. I’m a little [inaudible 1:03:46].



	M:	Oh, yeah. No, we interviewed—see that’s the thing, a lot of those classes did some of those interviews, so we got interviews with a lot of Lincoln, Mebane people. I mean that’s the thing, like you said; everyone around here went to Lincoln at one time. So if you grew up here—

	D:	That’s where you went.



	M:	Yeah, that’s pretty much it.



	D:	From 1926 to 1970, that’s where you went: to Lincoln. Because the old building over there, it was built in 1926, I think. Mr. Jones was the principal during that time, A. Quinn Jones, the person they named it after. He was the principal from 1926 to 1957. Unique man. They even taught Latin in high school during them days, man. And I would love to take it, I’d like to take that now. You ever had any?

	M:	Latin? Little bit, not too much.





	D:	Oh yeah?



	M:	I picked it up from dictionaries and stuff, looking up the word origins. D:	Did it help you?

	M:	Oh, yeah.



	D:	Yeah man, I mean, I figure, if I learned that, wow man; I’d be tearing up a vocabulary. I see a word and know what it—wake up sleepy, “So-and-so,” “Oh man, that means so-and-so-and-so.” [Laughter] Yeah, man.

	M:	Oh yeah. Well so, what was Lincoln like when you were going there? That’s—



	D:	Man, that was like the center of the community. Because that’s where the schoolchildren went to get educated. When they built Lincoln—you ever been in that building before?

	M:	Inside? No.



	D:	When they built Lincoln—and it’s like that now—you don’t have to go outdoors for nothing. Everything is within the building. In other words, you don’t have to touch the elements outside at all. The auditorium was unique. It held—held about a thousand people, maybe more than that. I’m serious, because we had like 1500 when I was in school going to Lincoln. It was 1,500 kids from seventh to twelfth.

Okay? They had the junior high and the high school in the same building. When they built Lincoln—there’s a story to that. Somebody probably done told it, but anyway—. The unique thing about us, man: they had the city dump right behind Lincoln, man. We was in high school and had to smell the city dump. Behind Lincoln, there’s a softball field. And you got Williams Elementary. Lincoln sit like this, Williams Elementary sit over here. Between Lincoln and on—no, Lincoln





there, Williams Elementary would be like over here. And this area here, they had the city dump, man. I’m serious. Like, seagulls? This time a year, you had seagulls—the white ones—that would hang out around there, you know, eating stuff, whatever, the trash and stuff like that. We didn’t have air conditioning. It’s a nice building, but it wasn’t air conditioned. We open the windows, and we smell this garbage all day. And we in school, but we smell this garbage. But our school is probably one of the best-built Black schools of that time that was built. We had two wings: we had a junior high wing, and a senior high wing. We had up-to-date science equipment and sciences classes with the gas burners and all that and stuff like that. We had a gymnasium—well, we had a library, real nice library. Go down the next hall and we had like an industrial area at the end of this hall. Brick mason, concrete, carpenter, agriculture, tailoring, and DCT—it was diversified cooperative training. Those was kids who had jobs. You come to school half a day, then the next half a day you went out to work to some business or facility in town. Then at the other end of that hall, you had the gym and the athletic department. And we had—still a nice gym out there. That school, they didn’t— they take schools and put them and turned them to different things. At first, it was like a training school when they closed it in 1970—you know, everything became integrated here, stuff like that. Then they opened it back up to a middle school.

But the concept of the building, the construction, and the way that building made is unique, man. They didn’t tear that down, they kept that. We had lockers, all our lockers was in the middle of the hall. That was a unique thing. And when they built the school, they had a open house, and everybody was out there proud of





what we had. This was the new school and stuff like that. So, everything was originated around that. It was like a church. It was the institution. Our educational institution was the pillar of our community during that time. And you had all kind of organization you belonged to, the teachers was very proud of what they were doing, and they made you proud. You became proud. And you became part of that, and you tried to achieve. And when you graduated from high school, you wanted to do something—my group, we wanted to go further, we either wanted to go to college or the military. I said college, because I wasn’t going to no Vietnam. [Laughter] I didn’t want to do that. But it was really unique. Positive, positive stuff, plenty of stories about going to Lincoln. You grew up and—a lot of my friends are dead, a lot of guys gone, man. And I miss them, you know? But it was a unique thing. Our commencement at graduation? Oh, it was a big time, man. Yeah. Everybody go dressed up. During those days, you dressed up. Even out here to Florida, you go to a football game to Florida during those days— because I sold cokes, Coca-Colas and stuff like that—the men would wear ties and sport coats, and the ladies would wear stockings, and heels, and corsages. That’s the way you went to the football game. They’d get drunk like they get drunk now, too; same thing. [Laughter] But the lady have on her corsage and dress up, hair done. Guys have on they ties and sport coats. That was the norm. Then the [19]70s came in, and then from I say about 1967 through the [19]70s, them hippies, them hippies come up in there and change the whole society.

Woodstock. You ever heard of Woodstock?



	M:	Oh yeah.





	D:	That was a change, it changed. America changed, man. And going back to that political thing, it had to do with the Vietnam War, it had to do with civil rights, and the women jumped on part of that. The women started trying to get their rights out there, too. So ,we became like a nation of a lot of political upheaval. A lot of stuff was going on. We had a war in Vietnam, we had the young generation here protesting the war, and smoking that good marijuana. [Laughter] We had a lot.

We had the Blacks who was like the tearing up the cities every summer; then Martin Luther King got killed, Malcolm went before he did, I think, I forgot. Well anyway, Martin Luther King and Malcolm got wasted, John Kennedy and his brother got wasted. So, they were like our saviors. So now it’s like, “Wow, man,” you know? So that’s another story there, too, in relation to the development of society and things that happened, and how it affected one group and another group. It affected people certain ways and some people were not able to come out of that. And they got into certain things, and some people think that they have arrived, but they haven’t.

	M:	Fair enough. How did the political climate affect your—I mean this is around the same time that you’re going to Lincoln, correct?

	D:	Right. I was in Lincoln during that. Oh also, you had the Cuban Missile Crisis? All that kind of stuff. All that involved, all that happening at the same time, seriously.

	M:	That’s a lot.



	D:	It was, man! You had like the George Wallace and the standoff in Alabama in segregated schools, desegregating schools and stuff like that. You had all this was during the—what they call them, the freedom riders on those buses? All that,





and killing of those kids in Mississippi. Think it was in Mississippi where those boys went missing. Yeah, there. All this kind of stuff, it’s happening. Like, them five years I was talking about? All that’s during and in that time. So you sit home and watch the 6:30 news, with Walter Kronkite, and you watching the Vietnam War on TV. I was like in college then, freshman in college. You come home, and my cousin was in the 101st Airborne, he had just got out. And his unit had gone to Vietnam when he got out. We sit there and watch TV in the evening, watch the evening news with Walter Kronkite, and watch the Vietnam War. Then, from the war, we watch somewhere where Angela Davis and them boys like that—she was a woman, but during those people, the Black Panthers and all them boys and that. And then, the KKK, White Citizens Council. Everybody just—it’s like some kind of social contagion, that’s the word I use. A social contagion. So, you got a lot of stuff going on. Matter of fact, the people of my times, them the hippies, the midnight hippies; we retired the baby boomers. They done run the country, now they retiring. Some of them are still in political offices, you check they age out. Those guys from like [19]68 back to maybe, through the [19]60s whatever, I put it like that. All them was the people who was smoking that— taking LSD and smoking that ganja. That’s who that was. Now they kids doing it, and they, “Oh—!” But they did it. They did it. They have run this country. Now they retired. That’s why y’all ain’t going have no social security, because I’m getting mine! [Laughter] Y’all not going have none. But I’m getting mine.

	M:	So, was this explicitly discussed? I mean, what was the discussion like at Lincoln? Was this among the students, or did it get into the classroom?





	D:	Oh, at Lincoln? Well, when I come up—[phone rings; Sanford and Sons theme] Excuse me. I can call them back. When I came up, during the time when I was there, the big thing was integration, I reckon, integrating. I come out of high school in 1963. So I’m like during the Kennedy boys days in high school. I’m like during the Cuban Missile Crisis, I was in high school. I was a senior in high school during that time. And we watched the news, and we participated, but as far as actively getting involved in civil rights around here, we had people who did the things. And I participated one night. My father told me, “Don’t you go up there! You go on across town over there to the Rose Theatre; don’t go up there where they protesting.” That’s the first place I went. [Laughter] And got up there, and about maybe ten of us walked up to the booth to buy a ticket. And the lady say, “Sorry, we don’t serve Blacks,” which was the normal thing. I say, “What you mean?” Say, “No, we don’t—you cannot come in here.” So about that time, we turn around, and there like about five hundred White folk on the other side of the road, just chatting at us. And I say, “Oh, my God!” So we left and headed north up 3rd Street right there by the Venue—you know where the Venue is?

	M:	Mmhm.



	D:	Right by the Venue heading north, going back to the Pleasant Street area. So they parted and let us through. And as we start walking through and maybe got a block and a half, they kind of like started, crowd start moving to us. And they start moving faster, so we start moving away faster. So we start running, and they start chasing us. I don’t know how the word got over there, but as we was running, we saw Blacks coming, meeting us—I reckon, to help us out. And the





crowd stopped when they saw that, and turned around. And then we came up to a halt, you know. That night, there was a lot of people jumping on people, and it was bad, man. We didn’t do too much that I remember when I was in high school, other than that one night that we did that. And we had to accept a lot of stuff that we didn’t want to accept. But within our—we didn’t like it. We talked a lot about Black history, because I come up in a Black school in relation to what a lot of people had done, and how they had worked hard to achieve what they had achieved. People like George Washington Carver, and you know his story. He’s great. The stuff that he did with a peanut, you know? The man was a genius, man.

	M:	That’s true.



	D:	But then, I found out that—I didn’t know that he had gone to the University of Iowa, I think it was. Yeah. He was educated in the University of Iowa. From a young boy, he went there and got educated. He was in the Agriculture Department. So, he had studied as a young man at an accredited college, and then he came back down south and went to Tuskeegee Institute. And the things that he had did, so we was into those people. Fredrick Douglass and his oratorical assets, and the things that he had done. And Booker T. Washington. We talked about them a lot. Mary McLeod Bethune; those kind of people. Dr.

Charles Drew, think he did first open heart surgery, or was it the blood plasma? But anyway, we talked about a lot of our pioneers. But as far as a political kind of talk that we did, I don’t remember that. I became political. When I got out of high school, I become very political about things. When I went to college, my mind





opened up, because I was introduced to ideas that, “Damn, I didn’t even know this exist,” you know? So now, my mind working, just trying to understand. And then, when you’re young, you get new ideas and then you create shit in your mind that be wild and stuff like that. So as far as high school, we just basically accepted what it was. And then I went off to college, and I met people who were more political, who were more Malcom Xs; who were more Huey Newton; who were more Eldridge Cleaver; who were more H. Rap Brown. And then I met a guy named Joe Waller who was from St. Petersburg, and he came here in Gainesville and did a lot of stuff. But when he was here, I was in Tallahassee.

But I knew him. He wasn’t dangerous, he just knew how to fight the system, and stuff like that. And I heard of a man and started reading about him, and I kind of liked him as I become older: Louis Farrakhan. A lot of people don’t like him, but I like him. I like what he say. I don’t accept everything that he say, I don’t accept everything nobody say. But there are elements, AC—what that mean? ACL. I just saw ACL on there—

	M:	Yeah I’m not sure what— D:	Is it gone?

	M:	Yeah, looks like it’s working okay. D:	It’s not finished though?

	M:	No, no, it’s still working.



	D:	How long have we been talking? M:	About an hour.





	D:	Yeah? This shit be worth a thousand dollars. [Laughter] The people, kids, during those days we were just be glad to be around. We were glad to be here, man.

And like I say, I didn’t get political until I left high school. Then I became very political. I’m political now, really, about stuff.

	M:	So how’d you end up at college? You went to FAMU, I guess?



	D:	Yeah. See, I grew up there, I grew up there being born in Tallahassee. Every summer, that was my summer vacation, that’s the only place I went to stay with my grandmother. So. And my grandmother run a rooming house for boys that went to FAM. And so, I grew up around that. That’s what I grew up around. I knew people went there. As far as the band and the football and all of that, I grew up seeing that, being part of that. I knew I was going to college, and it wasn’t no question where I was going. That’s where I was going. And that’s where I went.

That’s how I got there. Yep.



	M:	Fair enough.



	D:	It’s part of my, I reckon, part of my heritage. Yeah, and I’m real proud my son went there, too. And I have a pride about it. I think they do a good job in educating me on Blacks. Matter of fact, they produce more Blacks with B.S. degrees than any other Black HBCU in America. Right now, we got about 13,000 students, which is pretty good size. Our business school was very, up in the top ten they say one time in some Harvard review. And our pharmacy school is one of the best—I think the best in the state, because everybody that go to FAM that take that exams that a pharmacist have to take? Everybody pass. They don’t have no fails. They have a PhD program, also, there in pharmacy. It’s a very





good pharmaceutical school. And once you go through that, I mean—when you get out, people need pharmacists. Pharmaceuticals, you make good money in pharmaceuticals—legal or illegal! [Laughter] Pharmaceuticals, we a pharmaceutical country. So, they have a very good pharmacy school. Used to be very strong with education; I don’t even know if we have that any more up there. Because you don’t put out much educators, teachers, which we need a lot of teachers to get into things and understand simple—there’s a lot of reasons. But we don’t put out many teachers no more. But I went to FAM because I was around that all my life. That’s all I knew. I knew I was going be Rattler. That’s how I got there.

	M:	So, what did you study when you were there?



	D:	My major was sociology,with a minor in psychology. But what I did, I took some Education courses where I would have to intern, and fell back on that. And it made me a life. When I got out, that’s what I did. And I went and got a masters from FAMU, too. I had a masters in Guidance and Counseling. And that’s Homecoming this weekend. Matter of fact, I’ll probably leave around Thursday. Going to Homecoming.

	M:	Fair enough. Yeah, the FAMU community seems pretty strong, too, in terms of the pride of alumni.

	D:	Yeah, I’m a part of the Alumni Association here. We online, we got Facebook, we trying to get into—I’m like, over communication. We trying to get into the high tech, the tech, modern technology to reach the younger people. We got a lot of FAMU graduates in this town, but we don’t have them participating in our





organization, and we got to find ways of pulling them in, a lot of these young people. There’s plenty of them there, yeah.

	M:	You said you got more political while you were there. Did you have any involvement with the Civil Rights Movement, or any kind of activism?

	D:	When you go to college, you get into a lot of social discussions. And by me being a Sociology major and a Psychology minor, there’s a lot of conversations that’s going come up, and—I was one of them guys that wore the granny glasses, and—I couldn’t grow a afro, because my hair wouldn’t grow; I had a TWA, they call it: a teeny-weeny afro. [Laughter] It would get about that long. But I could grow me a beard, and wear my granny glasses, and wear bell bottoms. I used to wear a leather vest, with streamers off it, with the leather streamers? And stuff like that. And we used to talk a lot about—I had friends that did a lot of stuff. They would go up in Mississippi and protest. This one guy never come back. They didn’t know what happened to him. But—and just sitting and discussing in classes and stuff. I didn’t belong to any special political organizations, but I participated in philosophy, and talked a lot about stuff. Read different books by different people, and listened to ideas and stuff like that.

M:  Fair enough, is that—I mean, I guess you kept in touch back home; was there much discussion about the way civil rights was sort of changing Gainesville at that time?

	D:	What happened is that the culture was changing itself, because every household you went in during that time? There was a picture of John Kennedy, a picture of Martin Luther King, and a picture of Robert Kennedy. Sometimes the pictures





would be together, up on people’ TV or mantles, in the Black community. These were special people during—they had marches, civil right marches and stuff like that they had. You didn’t have too many marches around here. The march that I remember they had around here was when they closed Lincoln, and the kids had to go to GHS? They had a march down University Avenue, I think it was. But I wasn’t here. I was in, I worked in Gadsden County for three years before I come back to this way, right after I got out of college. And that was a big thing. But it was a lot of fighting and stuff going on at the school. A lot of unrest and stuff. It took several years, but that happened; everywhere that it happened, that kind of thing happened. It’s like they felt like the Kennedys had forced that on people, but like I said earlier when we talked, it’s just been a generation and ten years, forty years, that there’s been whatever right there. So you got one generation, but then you got like two groups of kids that was born within that generation because people have kids in different ages, and now they have them really early and stuff like that. So the concept of generation could change to a degree, but the group that you’re in might change from thirty and bring it back down to twenty, because kids start early, you know what I’m talking about?

	M:	Mmhm.



	D:	So it really haven’t been that long, and what happened is a lot of people have died out that had them ideas, and that concept, and that culture. But a lot of them died, but by them dying, that don’t mean that the concept and the culture don’t still exist, because they had kids, and they taught they kids, too. And the kids went to school with each other. But then, when it gets back down to it, a certain





set of kids going have the power, and other ones still going be poor; it don’t matter, still going be like it is, you know? But there’s more empathy on the majority part than it was before. Because I think—what the man’ name? Bill Clinton. He did something from the government to kind of apologize for slavery; something he did, I can’t think of what it was, if he made a concept, address the Congress? No. It was something that was done in relation to apologizing to us, yeah. I mean, you know. But you can’t apologize for what other generations did, that’s they concept but—

	M:	That’s true.



	D:	Yeah. [Inaudible 1:33:59].



	M:	Fair enough. Well, and so, it would be easy to backtrack—but keeping with this thread, so you taught in Gadsden County, you said?

	D:	Yeah, Gadsden County, and Putnam County, and Alachua County. M:	Okay. In which order?

	D:	Gadsden County first, then Putnam County. I was in Gadsden County three years, Putman County nine years, and Alachua County nine and three years— what, that’s twelve? And I did thirty-five years. So, twelve from thirty-five is three—

	M:	Twenty-three.



	D:	Twenty-three years in Alachua County. At one school—no, two schools, I’m sorry.

	M:	Two schools. Well, so what are the names of the schools you were teaching at?





	D:	When I come to Alachua County I wasn’t a teacher. I came in here as a quasi- administrator. But in Putnam County, I taught Social Studies—that’s where I grew up at—taught Social Studies, World History, Florida History, Civics, Psychology and Sociology, Black History. When I got my masters, I became a part-time guidance counselor, so I had half Social Studies classes and half guidance counselor. Then, after school I coached football and track.

M:  And what school is that? D: Interlachen High School. M:  Interlachen, okay.

D:  Mmhm. And then during that time, I developed a lot of relationships with people; bond with male and female for years, and right now sometimes I’ll be sitting here and the phone will ring. “Hey, Coach.” “Who this?” “Boy, this Roger.” “Where you at?” “I’m in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean.” “What you doing?” “I’m a Merchant Marine.” “What?” [Laughter] “Yeah, Coach, I was just thinking about you.

Thought I’d call you.” Man, make you feel good, you know. Be something you said, be something you did, that you didn’t even know that was important to them. Because you respect everybody; don’t disrespect no one, and don’t count nobody out. You don’t do that, not with no human being. Because you don’t know. And as far as trust is concerned, people have to earn that. You don’t just do it, give it. You have to watch. And that come from the animal instincts that we have. We’ve lost a lot of our animal instincts because it became overshadowed with other kind of stuff, but we should be just as aware of what’s going in in nature, like a bird, or a wild animal, anything else. We have that in that us, too.





But I reckon because of development, we lose a lot of it on our brain, but we still animals like the other animals, and you have to be cunning. You have to watch your environment, watch people, study them. And you’ll understand because God made us to the degree ‘til you basically could see just about everything that you need to see. And it don’t have to be visually; it could be from a mental aspect, it could be from a spiritual aspect. But you have to let it develop within you. In our society, we done become so, like I say, technical. To these little kids, these young kids? Man, they got another reality. I told you that. They mind is, they something else, man. It’s different.

	M:	Fair enough—



	D:	I like the way you do that. [Laughter] “Fair enough.” [Laughter] M:	It’s my thing, I guess.

	D:	Yeah. That’s okay, that’s your style.



	M:	So, what were the names of the schools you taught at in Gainesville? You said Williams, right?

	D:	No, no—



	M:	Oh, not Williams?



	D:	In Gainesville, it was A. Quinn Jones. I stayed there for like four—must’ve been nineteen—for nineteen years, I think it was. And then I went to Idylwild Elementary, I was there for four years. That’s where I retired at.

	M:	Okay, okay.



	D:	I spent more years working with emotionally handicapped kids than anything.



And I recognized where I learned about a lot of stuff about learning how to be like





an—caged animal, you know how they say, “He’s cagey?” He’s watched things and don’t trust you, and stuff like that. You try to develop trust. You ever watched the dog whisperer?

	M:	I’ve seen that, yeah.



	D:	You ever seen that, man? M:	Yeah.

	D:	Awesome, ain’t it? People the same thing, it’s same thing with people. Every kids that have been abused; have been put in different homes that are not their homes; staying, like, with a family one year, and the next year you with another family, or you in another town, or you done changed schools; or learning how to bond. Some people don’t learn how to bond or to trust. Intelligence, because you go to a place like that, you don’t supposed to be intelligent, but then I found out that a lot of the males, especially the Black males, was highly intelligent. On paper? High IQ, very high. But society or the things that happen in they life have made their spirits so negative, and they haven’t learned how to—they don’t want to, I’ll put it like that—they don’t want to be part of the status quo. They going go against the grain; they ain’t going with the grain. A lot of times, if I wanted them to go with the grain, I’d suggest that they go against the grain. So they’ll come with the grain, because they going go opposite of what I say. And that’s the way I psych them into it. [Laughter] You know, and then you learn, kids—you learn from kids, you learn a lot from children, man. In doing that, what you do, you sit back and you observe. And you don’t force nothing on nobody. Sometime you have to, but you don’t force nothing on nobody. You can get some people to do





the same thing without yelling or hollering. You don’t have to do that. Matter of fact, if you speak soft, they have to be quiet to hear what you got to say. And then, on another time, you might have to use noise to get them to do what you want them to do. Now when I was in the high school out in Interlachen, my class was the noisiest class in the building. Real noisy. But I let them, that’s what they liked to talk and play music. But I like them to do different types of manipulations where they would get involved and feel what they were doing. If they wanted to play music, “Okay, y’all can play music while we do these collages, or make these presentations that you going make at the end of the week. Because we studied maybe three weeks or a months on a unit on something; now I want you to see—I want to see how you understand this. But you got to put it to me in some kind of presentation.” And during that time, my wife had bought me a Beta unit, like the VCR? Before the VCR, there was something called a Beta. And you had your camera, but with the Beta unit it come up sharp like that. And you put your VCR tape in it, and put it down like that. But I had a TV monitor with it. So, my class was adjacent to the library. So I would go in the library and check out the TV, and bring it back to my classroom, and set my Beta unit up. Once that image come on that TV and them kids, of them being on TV? Man, I become— my classroom became very popular. Because I had a Beta unit before the school got the VCR equipment, okay? So we would—about every Friday, they had to make a presentation about something that we had studied. But in preparation, it would be a lot of noise in that. They would be either doing they posters and listening to music, and talking, and stuff like that. Or another group might be





outside practicing some skit that they were going to do, because everybody wanted to be on the TV. [Laughter] So, that was a thing I used. And then I’d taken a class when I was in grad school in audiovisual presentation. And I got pretty good with that slides, with the little slides and the synchronization of the music and all of that. I got pretty good with that, and then I taught my kids. So they started writing scripts and putting stuff together. And by the end of the year, we had this slide presentation that we had put in the hall on this machine that did everything, and my class became very popular. Everybody in school wanted to sign up to come to me. And the principals didn’t like it. So, they gave me a bad evaluation. And the principal told me that, “Mr. Demps you do a good job, but we got one problem.” I say, “What’s that, sir?” He said, “You’re teaching the children how to think. You can’t teach them that. They don’t need to know how to think.” I looked at him. I said, “Okay.” And two weeks later, I resigned; I come here and got a job at the school as a dean, and I went back and wrote three letters: one to the principal, one to the athletic director and one to the school board. I told ‘em I was through. I couldn’t see that, that bothered me. I didn’t like that at all. And then he lied to me, told me three of my classes was not going to be in the curriculum. I’m part-time guidance counselor, I should know. That was—the two, Psychology and Sociology, that was like a unit class. I’d take one one semester, and one the other semester. And I would correlate the two disciplines together. I enjoyed that. My Black History class, it became very popular at one time. It was real popular. You know, White kids enjoyed that. So now, you going take my staples, what I be coming to work, other than athletics, to do? So I say, “Okay.”





And I already know who done registered, because I’m part of the registration process. Matter of fact, it was the whole school, ‘cause the other lady who worked with me, she say, “Dang, everybody want to come to your class!” So I let that go, I had to get away from them. And then when I left, some of my boys said, “Coach, why you left, man?” And I explained. They told me, “You should’ve waited.” One kid, I would be hard on him on football practice, and I’d cuss him out and dog him. I said, “Well, you should be glad that I left.” He say, “No, no, man. I needed that. They don’t understand, they don’t know how to do me like that; you could do that.” His buttons, you could push some people’s buttons, and some you can’t. And some people—kids, they want to be disciplined. Kids want to be disciplined, man. But people don’t understand that. And they’ll back off and be soft with them, and let them have they way. You ever watch coaches like that man, like—what’s Saban’ first name, for Alabama coach?

	M:	Nick?



	D:	Nick Saban?



	M:	Yeah.



	D:	Nick Saban, Urban Meyer—these just people that I know about. Nick Saban, Urban Meyer, coaches here. Jim [inaudible 1:46:43], a White man, he gone. Coach Heard, Vincent Lombardi, George Halas—trying to think of somebody now. The dude with the New York Giants, used to be at Jacksonville—Tom Coughlin.

	M:	Oh yeah, yeah.



	D:	Tom Coughlin. Let me see who else. Buddy Ryan.





	M:	I remember him.



	D:	Them people that they call assholes? They players be crazy about one of them.



They players’ll hurt you about one of them. But they’d be hard on them boys, they’d be hard on they ass, hard. I’m mean, hard on them. And they like that, they appreciate that. George Patton: hard, but his soldiers were crazy about him. Then it comes back to—that comes back to Mother Nature. Then you look at the animals and how they be. After a certain age, you fixing to get your ass out of there. They’ll going to push you—a bird will push you off the cliff. You don’t fly, you gone. The other animals, after you get a certain age, you ain’t coming in here. You going have to leave and develop your own thing. And when they growing up, they bite them; they might hit them with they paw. They do different things to discipline them and show them whatever, whatever. That’s the way it’s supposed to be. And you appreciate the people that hard on you. Somebody easy on you, you don’t appreciate that. Somebody put they foot in you, but you do it with love, you appreciate that. I mean, that’s the way that is. You be hard on them boys, they appreciate it. People in life, they respect authority, when authority is authority. They appreciate it.

	M:	Who were the authorities around here when you were growing up? D:	Every adult.

	M:	Every adult.



D:  Every adult in the community. Yes, they were the authority. Like I say, you come by and say, “How y’all doing?” You speak. You spoke, that’s what you do. If you went to somebody’ house and they felt it upon them to discipline you with





physical force, they did it. And come and tell your mother, and your mother might not—they wouldn’t get mad with them. Because everybody respected everybody during that day. Now, you better not touch nobody’ kid. You better not put your hands on them. You better not yell at them. You better not correct them. Can’t do that, now. Whole different thing. Like I say, all the adults was authorities, man.

Especially your parents. Your mother could come out on the porch, and you could be three or four blocks from here. And she could yell, and you could hear her voice. A lot of my friends’ mothers did that; that was the community. [Yells] “Charles!” Just like that. And you’d hear it. And it would be like time would stop wherever you were. And if that’s all you heard, you would turn and run; sprint, sprint. Like Demps and Rainey, sprint. [Laughter] You would sprint. Some people that had a lot of kids would send the girls, and the boys would be playing football, and say, “Momma say you better come home.” And they’ll stop right there, and they run, go home, see what they momma want. So you had, authority was in the home, and authority was in the community. Like they say, a community raise a child, that’s an African proverb? That was reality. I lived that, that’s true. And then schools say, you didn’t go to school and act up. If you got disciplined in school, you got discipline when you got home, if the word got back. So it was like a thing of strong disciplines, [inaudible 1:51:14] raising children. Our kids, a lot of physical, what you call abuse and a lot of that, with a belt, switch, any damn thing they get they hand on. Sometimes, you had to run. [Laughter] But that didn’t do you no good, because I would run. I would have good speed. I probably was the fastest boy in this community when I grew up. I was. I was one of the fastest





boys in high school. I wasn’t the fastest, but I was in the top five. And I couldn’t outrun my mother. She walked me down and beat me back to the house. [Laughter] Yeah, man. But authority was the—most adults was the authority people.

	M:	So, you’ve also mentioned you followed the UF football team when you were— D:	Younger.

	M:	When you were younger. D:	Yeah.

	M:	Yeah, what was that like? How did you get interested in UF?



	D:	Well, see, in this time, everybody worked—a lot of people worked at the University of Florida. We came here, my father got a job out there. But he was working in the gym, in the athletic department. And we—it was just like that Homecoming, coming up? When they have—I mean, the whole town stop around here, everybody go to parades. And the Gators, you turn on radio, I mean, you hear about that. A lot of Blacks had jobs like custodians at dormitories, and when I was in high school I worked at Hume Hall, I worked at Broward Hall in the part where the—kitchen. I’d bus tables, and wash dishes and pots, and stuff like that; clean up. Adults, a lot of men worked in the ground crew, janitorial, stuff like that. On Saturdays, my father used to go the games, because he would work—like now, people do; it’s a lot of things, a lot of little hustles out there. And he would work at the games on Saturdays, but he would take me, me and a friend of mine. Because we would get in free. So I’m, like, nine, ten years old, and we—me and him were in the field, before the game, throwing footballs on Florida field. We





used to do that. About ten in the morning, we out there playing. By the time for the game, we be back inside, now. And we go—in the south endzone is where the Black community sit. It’s some wooden bleachers there. Wasn’t built like it is. It ain’t been like that all the time, now. It went from—I saw it going from 35,000 to the 90,000 like it is now. I watched each development as a kid growing up. We would go there, and then I started getting into the names. I knew the coach, I think my mother had done housework for him; Bob Woodruff was his name. And during them days, they might win four, five games. They was not very good. All of the stuff, “We Are the Boys from Old Florida,” all of the Gators chants; I knew all of that growing up as a kid. Then I got—before we got the TV, we would listen to the game on the radio. And that’s how I knew guys’ names, you know. Joe Brodsky, Don Bosseler, Vel Hickman, Leo Boney, Perry McGriff. This was before Ray Graves. You know Ray Graves came, he was a coach here. So, by me loving football and my daddy being an ex-coach, and I sit down with him and watched football, listened, and get into the philosophies of it. And then I had a friend that was older than me that played high school football, a quarterback, and he taught me a lot of stuff because I had one of those little electric footballs.

Equipment, little electric football toy. And we would play electric football all day on Sunday after church. And he would sit there and set formations up, and do blocking schemes. And that’s how I started learning football from an analytical point of view, from another kid, in relation to formations. You know, just basic stuff. Whole numbering systems, how you number odd and even football fronts; linebacker playing alignment; all that. Young boy, before I become ten years old.





Then when the Florida Gators would play, before I started selling cokes—I worked with my daddy, then I got older where I could go by myself, by twelve— and we would go out and sell Coca-Colas, make us good money. Walk up and down them stairs. Then I got older and went to college, I would go and, when I come home, I’d go in the north endzone. We would go in the north endzone and look through the gate. And when the fourth quarter come, they would open the gate and let you let in free. So, I’ve been watching the Gators and they football since about 1952. And I’ve seen the good and the bad with that. But Steve Spurrier was the one that really kind of changed with consistency, and come here and started winning the Southeastern Conference. Because they had never won that. They didn’t start winning that ‘til—what was it, in the [19]90s? Charley Pell and them won one, but they didn’t give it to him because they say—that was during the time when they were on probation, and had did some violations and stuff. But they won it on the field, they had a very good team. They had the best team that money could buy. [Laughter] So, I’ve been with the Gators for a long time, man. That’s how I got into them. And if you here in Gainesville, that’s the football team. That’s where everybody is, that’s what they are. You have a lot of Seminoles and other people around here now, but the Gators? Gator Growl used to be free. And they would do fireworks, man, at three o’clock in the morning.

And it was free, you didn’t have to pay. Used to have some good ones, too. So, the University of Florida has been a staple for the Black community, because a lot of people worked there. When Shands, when they opened—first it was J. Hillis Miller Medical Center, then Shands became part of that. You have, J. Hillis Miller





is the teaching hospital. Shands is the hospital part. A lot of people worked there in the Black community, plenty of people. And it kind of like—I was talking about Lincoln Estate and the Duval Heights, the communities? A lot of people in those communities got jobs at Shands, through the different departments on the medical building side, because they used to have animals there. They had dogs and monkeys that they used to do a lot of experiment on. I had a cousin that worked in gastrophysiology. And he’s in Houston, Texas now, he work for the VA in Houston. But he had his training right down in Shands. And they used to do a lot of stuff. Autopsies. I know people worked in gross anatomy. My parents worked in—my mother worked in hematology, she was trained, and my father worked in pathology. He became like a pathologist, in relation to a technician. I know people who worked in surgery, became surgical technicians. Because the program now is like they would train the people; they went to seminars, they trained them there at work to do a lot of the work. But they wasn’t college- educated, a lot of them wasn’t, but they learned that skill of what they were doing at Shands in relation to the medical field. And it was a good thing that happened to the Black community. A lot of people retired from out there, my parents retired from there. Yeah. Because they left from one degree, and when that opened, they had a lot of openings for people, and they trained people. But they had to go to school and get certified in it. You just didn’t do it, you had to be certified. So, that’s how I know about the Gators.

	M:	Fair enough. Was there any ambivalence with that? In terms of, at that time, I mean, no Blacks could go to school at UF. So, people were working—





	D:	Well, during that time, they had just started. When that opened, that should’ve been about around—when Daddy start? Daddy start working out there about in the [19]60s, when he started. I’m trying to think who was the first Black to go out there, the number one—I can’t even remember who the first Black was, I can’t even remember they name. I don’t know, but they started going out there about in the late [19]60s, they started there. We had a few and then the [19]70s came, and then there were more. Doug Dickey was the first one to introduce Blacks in sports out there, football. He brought in Willie Jackson and Leonard George, and a guy from here named Alvin Butler. And then, it grew from that. As far as students, I knew boys and girls that was going out there at that time. But at that time, I was just teaching; started teaching high school in 1970. And there’s a few. I wanna say they had about twelve hundred, but I don’t believe that, that’s probably as many as they got now. I got to get into that. You know how many Blacks out there now? You have an idea?

	M:	Not sure.



	D:	That’s something I’m going look up. I like to do research.



	M:	The numbers are out there, I know people who’ve told me about them. I don’t remember the number offhand. Sorry, did you say Alvin Butler?

	D:	Alvin Butler.



	M:	From right up that way? D:	Mmhm.

	M:	Okay, I didn’t know he played for UF.



	D:	Which one you talking about? There’s two different.





	M:	Oh okay, I know Alvin Butler up on Fifth Avenue. D:	Who he live with? How old is he?

	M:	Older guy.



	D:	His son, Alvin Butler Jr. His son was a defensive back, he went to GHS. His son played, one of the first that played at the University of Florida was his son.

	M:	I’ll have to talk to him about that.



	D:	Mr. Butler. Yeah, Mr. Butler got some stories, too. You know Mr. Butler? M:	I know Mr. Butler.

	D:	The brother talk longer than me! [Laughter] Maybe he out-talk me! Yeah, man, but what’s the next question?

	M:	Well, let’s see. You mentioned churches; what were the churches around here that people went to?

	D:	Shit, there’s plenty of churches in Gainesville. Or in this community? M:	In this community itself.

	D:	There’s Shady Grove right there, which is a part of the—Shady Grove is a historical place—and the Porters community, both of them are historical places, registered in the historical files. Shady Grove, what make it so different is, it’s made—the block is made of seashell. You can go by there and look at the seashells in the blocks. They don’t even make that no more, that’s a unique thing. Then there was another little church down there, it was a Holiness church. I think it’s the Church of God, the Church of God by Faith, was that the name of that? Used to be. But it’s a wooden church there on 3rd Street. And those were the only churches in this community during that day, it was two. But a lot of





people in the community didn’t go to them churches. They went to other churches, like—I went to a church down where—now, you know where the bus depot is down there? The city bus, for the city buses—

	M:	Like down over on— D:	Yeah.

	M:	Yeah, yeah.



	D:	Well my church was down that way, it’s called Mt. Moriah. But it’s moved now or whatever, right across the street from Lincoln Middle School on the highway, right there at the light. Used to be down there. That’s where we used to go to church at. Lot of people here went to church, they went to different places. It was just two in this community, but people went different places. Because each, you had different denominations. Like, Shady Grove is a Primitive Baptist; that church or whatever, the Holiness, which was part of the Church of God in Christ; and our church is a Missionary Baptist. So you had, in the Black community, the Black church, really originated out of Richard—what that man name? Richard Allen, and the African Episcopal Methodist Church, the AME. They left because—it’s a lot of Blacks in there but they left, some left, and went to the Baptist. Because the Baptist, American Baptist, accepted them in their denominations, and helped them to develop their own kind of thing, and give them more power. So, that’s why you had a lot of Blacks in the Baptist. Then you had the Episcopal Church, which we call the Holiness Church; the Church of God in Faith, Inc., incorporated. So we got basically: Baptist—Missionary Baptist, especially Black, but the Baptist is a combination of both, and you have the Primitive Baptist. They,





like, wash feet in the Primitive Baptist church. And then you have the Church of God in Christ. Then you have the African Methodist Episcopal Church, AME. Yeah. All of them Christianity; Christian churches. Most Blacks in America are Christian. Yeah.

	M:	So, did you spend more time with people who were from your church—like, you saw them more often—or did people just kind of—?

	D:	Oh we spent time with people from everywhere, but on Sunday, you go to your church. Whatever your specific thing was. But you spent time with everybody, we would still be mixed and stuff like that.

	M:	Well I mean, so on Sunday, did you have a lot of like lunches and things at the church, or people would kind of spend the day there, or what was—?

	D:	In different places. All that depends on where you were. M:	Okay.

	D:	In the country, it was like that. In the city, do different. Because they had other activities. On Sundays, most people would go to church in the morning, and go to the baseball game in the afternoon. Because they had the sandlot baseball, it was very popular in the country. You know what I mean by “the country”; in the rural areas? Every rural area probably had a baseball team. And on Sunday, that’s what people did: went out to the baseball game. Some churches in the rural area would have church, like, they’d have lunch. And they come to church, go to Sunday school and church, and after church they would eat; have a spread. Then after the spread, they might have another evening service, some places.





Baptism, everybody didn’t have a pool in their church. Some people baptized at the lake, or the river. That kind of stuff. During them days, yeah.

	M:	So, what were the baseball teams around here? Do you remember any of them? D:	Yeah. They had baseball teams in Archer, Jonesville, Monteocha, Newberry,

Orange Lake, Johnson Crossroad; all of the communities had a baseball team, man! [Laughter] Shit, everybody! And that’s just around this area. You go back up around Cross City, Madison, Greenville, over up in Georgia; everybody played baseball, everybody had a baseball team. That was a thing, you know? That’s what people did. That was, I reckon a sport that—and they traveled to different places on Sunday. But that’s a thing that went on. And we used to have some good baseball players, Black guys. But if you look at the baseball now, most of the Black baseball players you see play, come from other places. They come from Puerto Rico, they come from the Dominican Republic. I don’t know what they consider themselves, but you know they have African descent in them. And they stocked us all through the Caribbean and different places. I be telling guys from the Caribbean, I say, “We brothers; y’all just got off the ship before we did.” [Laughter] And then we used to have, I played little league baseball when I was a kid. And that was a big thing, playing baseball. It was cheap. You didn’t need nothing but a glove, and a t-shirt, and a cap; that was the uniform. And you would wear shorts, whatever you want to wear down there, and your shoes. But football more expensive.

	M:	Oh, yeah.





	D:	Yeah, very. And there were a lot of little baseball leagues. Now, you can’t hardly find a baseball league in the Black community. Kids don’t even play the game, man. They into football and basketball. And that’s a farce, because everybody think they going play pro, and they not. Most of the boys that go to the University of Florida, that’s what they there for, the football players. They not there for no academics, man! [Laughter] They can’t even spell no “academic.” They don’t know what it look like if you show it to them, but they can run a football and tackle. That’s what they there for. And this is a means to trying to make the NFL, and everybody don’t make that. Everybody don’t make that. One out a million, I say; it’s very difficult.

	M:	When you were growing up, did kids talk about going to the major leagues, or playing in the NFL back then, or—?

	D:	We had—I mean, we had concepts of being successful and doing things. We didn’t have many heroes. Our heroes were people like Jim Brown, Bobby Mitchell, Night Train Lane. A guy named Marion Campbell, I think was his name. We had Lenny Moore, a guy named Joe Perry. That was it then. You had new guys; these was, like, kind of older. You had guys like Willie Richardson, a couple more Black guys. You had—this before Walter Peyton and them, they were younger. They were little boys, but they had come up during them times.

Then you had a guy named James Harris became a quarterback from Grambling in the NFL; he played for the Rams. He was before Doug Williams. And you had a guy named—well, Bob Hayes came through then, but me and him was in college at the same time. And Robert Paramore and them. But we had a few





heroes, but not a lot. But then what happened is that, when them [19]70s rolled in, a lot of stuff start changing. Once the society integrated, opportunities opened up, too. Because Bear Bryant, Alabama. Alabama had been kicking ass a long time. [Laughter] That the other night is not nothing new. I saw a guy named Nat Moore that used to play for the University of Florida. He played for the Miami Dolphins; have you ever of Nat Moore?

	M:	Not that I remember.



	D:	You know nothing about him. He’s good, man. He’s one of the commentators that commentates. He used to comment—they didn’t do it this year, somebody else—he used to commentate the game for Florida. He’s retired from the Miami Dolphins; a wide receiver. I think Nat in the Hall of Fame, Nat Moore. Very good athlete. He was playing running back. After Alabama, he switched to wide receiver. They ran him up in there one time, they broke his ankle. He got his ankle broke. Them boys like came down on him, big, just like they was a little bit—. [Laughter] He stopped, he didn’t do that no more. But he was pretty good, at Nat Moore. But going back to the essence of what I was saying, we had very few heroes to make that kind of thing was real. A lot of my heroes was at FAM, Florida A&M University. A guy like Willie Gallimore, who signed with the Chicago Bears but he got killed in a car wreck. He was before Gayle Sayers; you’ve heard of Gayle Sayers, right?

	M:	Mmhm.



	D:	Gayle Sayers ran like Willie Gallimore, Willie Gallimore was that kind of runner, that came from an HBCU. Guy named James Tullis; those college guys that went





to FAMU. And see, like University of Florida, you get the top? FAMU had the top then, they had the top boys in Florida. HBCU had the top boys in that state. I saw some real good athletes in my time as a young man, with segregation. Because during that time, FAMU’d’ve beat Florida down. They’d’ve beat them bad. It’d’ve been ridiculous. Because of the speed and strength that they had. They had them silverbacks. Like Alabama? You know what the silverback is. You know what that is, right?

	M:	No.



	D:	You know the silverback? That’s them big gorillas, that when they go— M:	Okay, yeah.

	D:	The silverbacks. Yeah, Alabama had some silverbacks there, man! [Laughter] M:	Oh I saw that, I saw that on Saturday.

	D:	So FAMU, we used to have silverbacks. Had plenty of them. Shit. I mean, big, hostile. There was a thing, see: agile, mobile, and hostile. That was the adjectives that were used for the football players that played for FAMU: agile, mobile, and hostile. And you’d kill a mosquito. You know what you kill a mosquito with?

	M:	Unh-huh.



	D:	An axe. [Laughter] And an elephant with an atomic bomb. That was the philosophy. That’s the way they looked at life. And that’s the way they played the game. Very aggressive. And if you notice—ACL, that mean we done talked that, out but anyway, that’s what that mean. But anyways, it’s okay.

	M:	It’s just adjusting the levels, that’s all.





	D:	Probably adjusting the levels of up and down, but yeah, mmhm. I’d take that.



	M:	Well so as far as baseball, did anyone ever talk about the Negro Leagues or any of the players from that?

	D:	Yeah, my daddy. My daddy, yeah man, talked about the Satchel Paige; all kind of guys, man. My father saw a lot of them. He played baseball, too. At the sand lot on Sundays when we was in Perry, I remember he used to play. He had on his uniform and stuff. But yeah, they talked about the Negro League. I heard a lot about them; I didn’t see any of that. But Josh Gibson and all those guys, Satchel Paige. Some other guys that was—they had great baseball players, people didn’t see them. My father used to tell me about—it was some pitcher that was throwing some kind of ball—this been about ten, fifteen years ago. Supposed to been some popular pitch that he was throwing. But my father and one of his friends said, “That ain’t—no, what he’s throwing—.” They called it a “fruitball” during them days fifty, sixty years ago. That some guy they knew was throwing that, and say, “That ain’t nothing.” They seen long time ago. He was telling me about this guy was a catcher, and he would catch in a rocking chair behind the plate. [Laughter] And still distract from you. He would put his glove out and take the ball from you when you swung it, and you’d be swinging and stuff like that.

There was guys that had all kind of athleticism; I mean, that could do a lot of things. Like now, you see a lot of Black guys that, big, small, whatever, that could do so many things. But these people came from somebody, they inherited that.

That’s nothing—you can’t teach that, you can’t teach speed. I mean, you can



work on it, but the person got to have something anyway. I mean, that comes.





You can work on agility, but your muscle attachment to the bone, and the ligaments, and the shape of it; all that got a lot to do with that. It got a lot to do with physical anatomy. You can teach of it, but you can’t teach the individual— you can teach them how to do so much of it, but a lot of stuff is innate, man. You know. So, that’s the way that is.

	M:	Well all right, all right. I mean, are you up for more questions, or—? D:	I don’t care.

	M:	Okay. You returned to Gainesville on what? Around the [19]80s, late [19]70s? D:	I came back to Gainesville in the early [19]70s.

	M:	Early [19]70s okay. Did it look different at that time? When you were back in this neighborhood?

	D:	It hadn’t transformed like it is now. M:	Okay.

	D:	See, I left in [19]60s, middle [19]60s, and went to college and come back, and worked in the North Florida County for three years before I come after college. Then I came back here in the year of 19—that must’ve been [19]69-[19]70? No, [19]70-[19]71. [19]70-[19]71 I come back here. When I got back here, a lot of stuff was going on, like I was talking about, in the society at that particular time; this was just before they entered Vietnam. This was—well, they had a big protest out there at the University of Florida in 1970. Matter of fact, they had to call in the National Guard and all that here at Criser Hall on 13th Street—the old one.

There’s two of them, right? There’s two Criser Halls, or one?



	M:	I’m not sure, I only know of the one offhand, but—





	D:	If it’s the one, that’s off 13th Street, facing 13th? M:	Yep.

	D:	Yeah, it should be the Admissions building. That’s where you used to go for admissions. But anyway, right there, that was the center of the protest. And they had National Guards and polices from other counties to come here to control the students. I’ll never forget that, because all of the men there had the, you know, the visor with the helmets? You know where Norman Field, Norman Hall Field is?

	M:	Mmhm.



	D:	That whole field was covered with police. I mean, that’s all that was out there, like in formation, with the billy clubs and that kind of stuff. This was also during the time of—like the protest, you had a lot of protest, and then you had a lot of just young people against the government, and what the government was doing.

Especially with that war around here. And that was a big thing around here, during that time. Yeah. And as far as the change, the only change that they had made, it was that they had started integrating at the University of Florida. So, I used to go out there a lot, to different stuff. Because it was new. And it hadn’t— just the social aspect of the mixture of the races, but other than that, as far as the physical geography at the time, they didn’t do that much changing. Physical was about the same, but some social stuff had changed.

	M:	What kinds of changes did you notice in that sense? D:	Social or physical?

	M:	Social.





	D:	Well like I say, the mixing of the races in relation to youth: going to school together, playing football together, kids going to school together at the high schools. And now you got mixed teams; ain’t no predominantly whatever. You got mixing, so people are learning how to adjust to each other. Both cultures are being accepted on both sides. And you’re listening to this music because I got into some groups like Rare Earth, I got into Chicago—which, I call them Chicago Transit Authority. I’ve got into the Three Dog Night, I got into—who is that lady? I can’t—I reckon that was it. You start developing relationships with people from the opposite race, and you start understanding stuff that you didn’t understand before, and they start understanding stuff that they didn’t understand. And it all came back to that thing about the culture, the cultural aspect or whatever, because a lot of people have European descent, so they have a lot of European culture about them, and things that they do. I reckon that was the most social kinds of things that I saw. Now, in America, the most segregated time in America is Sunday morning at eleven o’clock. That’s when people really split up. And you go into the religious places, and then you’ll see the differences in relation to ethnicities; most ethnic people worship within they own. You know, you have some mixture, but that’s basically the most segregated time in America, is eleven o’clock on Sunday morning. Yeah.

	M:	That’s an interesting observation. So what was the—I mean what were your interactions like with Whites in this town when you were growing up? I mean, did you just basically not interact?





	D:	Oh when I was growing up? No, we lived in our own community, we didn’t hardly see none, unless they passed through the communities. Some of the kids used to pass through going to play little league football. And we would be jealous and we would throw rocks at them and stuff, because we didn’t have a league. [Laughter] They’d have on they little [inaudible 2:26:47] and little helmets and shoulder pads, and suits and stuff, and they going to practice, but we didn’t have a league like that when I grew up. We had the sandlot, had that road out there. Some good athletes come out that road. Out of this community, we had one— two? Two, two. We had two professional football players to come out of this community, two: Lawrence and Ronnie. I grew up with all of them; one of them used to stay right back there. Just two, we had two. But we had a lot of people in this community who did go to college and graduate and then retire. We had quite a number of that, we did, we did. Some kids did pretty good from over here—you know, in life. Some pretty good, successful stories. They come from a poor community and did all right in life, yeah.

	M:	That’s a good thing. So did you—I mean you didn’t have any difficult experiences when you were selling cokes or anything? I’m not trying to assume—

	D:	Out there?



	M:	Yeah.



	D:	Not really, no.



	M:	Okay.



	D:	No, ain’t nobody never disrespect me or nothing like that, which somebody probably did. But no, I never had no difficulty with that. I have some things I





remember in selling Cokes. When they used to play Florida State, I would always go to the Florida State side and sell mine. I would say, “Coca-Cola! Coke, Coke! I got them hot, I got them cold! Go Seminoles! Coca-Cola!” [Laughter] Yeah, we used to sell a lot of Coca-Cola’s in—when they had Gator Growl, you stayed out there all night because you worked, and clean the stadium up because they had to clean up that trash up. They do that now. They have a blower now, like those blowers? They blow the trash to the end of the thing, and they put it all in a big bag. But I used to clean the stadiums after the Gator Growl. You’d get about five o’clock in the morning.

	M:	Was that just spending cash for you, or did you use it for—?



	D:	See, anytime, anything you’ve got, yeah. You use that for to buy clothes, or to buy you most of next week’s stuff, like that. See, we would get up on Saturday mornings and go rake yards. And we’d take that money that we raked the yard with—then we’d take that money that we raked the yard with, and go to the Gator game and sell Coca-Colas. And so, we’d hustle. And I’d come back home with about seventy-five dollars, which was very good money during them days in the [19]60s. So, that would be enough for me to go downtown and buy me some sneakers, or some jeans. I liked Dickies, I used to wear Dickies. Or buy my lunch for a month, really, at school. Yeah, we worked, we made money out there.

	M:	Where’d you get the cokes?



D:  No, you buy them. You would buy a twelve pack: a rack, you’d buy the rack. I forgot how much you paid for the rack. And then you made like a quarter, fifty cent off of each drink. And if you were strong enough, you’d buy three or four





racks. But I wasn’t that strong, so I’d get me two racks, because I was real thin. I’d get two racks and sell them, and then go back—because the guy, where you bought them from, you had to go to a station. You’d pay so much, and they’d pour them up and put them in your rack for you. And then you’d walk on out there and sell them. By the end of the third quarter, you’d need to be through selling, because you’d get caught in the fourth quarter with that stuff. So you’d sell most of your stuff during the first half, because they’d be drinking that liquor. [Laughter] They’d be drinking that—we called it skall; they be drinking that skall. By the third quarter you need to be finished, or you going get caught with some cokes.

And so, what happens is that they start giving them guys—giving cokes away at the fourth quarter. Say, “You want one, man?” Yeah, just give them away. Just leave the tray, yeah.

	M:	Fair enough. Let’s see. Well, so, when did you start to notice the changes in this neighborhood? I guess that would be the—I mean, what did it look like in the [19]80s around here? Did it start to change then, or when—?

	D:	Yeah, it started changing in the [19]80s, by the [19]80s. They had this thing called the Oasis Project, which was going to restore the community and stuff. So, it was a lot of community meetings, a lot of planning with the, with the—

	M:	City Commission, or the—?



	D:	They was part of it. Trying to think of the name of the organization. It’ll come to me in a minute. But yeah, during the [19]80s, it was a lot of start movement. And like I was saying, every vacant lot you see was a house; like them vacant lots over there?





	M:	Mmhm.



	D:	It was houses over there. Vacant lots anywhere over here, it was condensed with people. And like I say, now, what do you see? Lots that were houses there, and it was like four to five people lived in those houses. And the streets was cars, people walking and stuff like that. Noise, music—a spirit of enjoying life. Used to have a lot of killing over here, though, on the weekends. This was like in the [19]60s, [19]70s; kind of backed off in the [19]80s. But most of the people wasn’t from the community. Community people real good people over here, but we had a lot of people that come from out of the community into the community to the jukes, to have fun, and drink, and stuff like that. And then you had crack cocaine. When it come to Gainesville, this community it came to. Some Haitians from Miami brought it here, and the traffic increased tremendously in relation to people. And then by the [19]90s—yeah, by the [19]90s, Porters was still thriving. In the [19]80s and the [19]90s, in relation to movement, people, nighthawks at night; I mean, always somebody up around here: riding a bicycle, walking the streets, or whatever. It developed an imagery; media does that. It can create—it can make or break, whatever it is media calls it. It had a lot of media publicity as far as being a negative place. But last week—I think a week before last, whatever—they had a bust, they bust some guys, some crack dealers. But they small guys; they can’t even bond out of jail. They ain’t nobody, man! [Laughter] But they hit five houses at the same time. And, but these little petty people, but then they put it in the paper like this was a bad place. But it’s really not bad. It’s one of the better communities right now to live at, because you don’t have a lot of





traffic, and if you walk around, you see how nice the neighborhood is in relation to the physical of what it is, because of all these trees. But they dangerous during hurricane season; other than that, it’s nice. I reckon the changes started about. . . Well, the changes started about the late [19]80s, the early [19]90s, in relation to the slow dissipation of people leaving. And when 2000 came, it still was kind of up, but what happened is that the lady that runs the juke, named Ike, his daughter; he died, and she closed that down. And when that closed down, the whole community like—. And now it’s so quiet—hear them birds?

	M:	Mmhm.



	D:	Used to couldn’t hear that. [Laughter] But you’d hear a juke box, somebody talking loud or whatever. You couldn’t hear that like that. Now, you hear that all night, all the time. Yeah.

	M:	Well, so what was this Oasis Project? You said some of the local politicians—



	D:	Oasis Project was a project that really come out of Ft. Lauderdale. I had some material on it—I still might have it back there somewhere, but I’d have to find it. What it was, was taking the community and restoring the community, and make it like a oasis. You know, in the desert, you have the oasis, you have the water and everything? Well, when you look at it over here, this is oasis because of them trees, man. One time, Asplundh—I think that’s the way you pronounce that, Asplundh?

	M:	Oh yeah, the tree people—I know what you mean.



	D:	They came through here, I reckon the city had hired them to cut back the trees from the utility lines, and they went all through the community and cut them a





certain length? Man, that night, it was so awesome around here. It was like, “Wow!” Because what they did, they opened the light up from the street lights when they cut the trees back, so you could stand anywhere in Porters and look right there, and it was lit up, man, like a village. Awesome, very awesome.

They’ve grown back now because they having cuts and that. You could sit here and look across to the other street. You see the bushes—I mean, the trees and that—but a lot of that was cut. It was cut to a certain height, and it was beautiful. The Oasis Project was a thing out of, it came out of Ft. Lauderdale, out of Broward County. It was something they had done down there. And it was something that the city had wanted to do over here, and it was to change the face of the community. And basically, they did change the face of the community. And they changed the face of the community with new housing, affordable housing, down here in the cul-de-sac. And then they built the Porters Oaks, which was supposed to be affordable housing, but it was attached housing. I thought it was going be individual like this, but it wasn’t. It was attached housing, and the reason they attached the housing, because it was cheaper, because you could put the same plumbing system for two people, right? And they having problems over there now with the plumbing system. Because, like, this house, say it’s an apartment, it’s another apartment on the other side. Well then, the bathrooms and stuff going be connected, and where the plumbing system was probably going to be—not use the same plumbing system, but the plumbing would be in that area. I reckon whatever, easier to build that way. And I didn’t ever like that concept. But they did not finish the Oasis Project, because we





should have sidewalks, and street curbs, and gutters, and stuff like that, and it never did happen. It never did be complete. They started on it, but it wasn’t completed after that. And the houses, those houses on the other street; they’re behind these on 6th Street over there. All this was part of that development, and having affordable housing and stuff like that.

	M:	Is that the last official project or major thing that people—? D:	No, they just finishing with 3rd Street right there.

	M:	Well, that’s true.



	D:	Right. Janie know more, but I stopped going to meetings and stuff like that, because I’m too political. I’ll get up there and—[Laughter]—say the wrong thing. So I might be more detrimental than helpful. So, I let them go, I stay.

	M:	Detrimental how? Just to—?



	D:	Expressing my opinion. Sometimes the opinion hurt worse than it help, according to what you think. So anyway, I don’t know what the future is. I should, because I live here, but I don’t know what it is. I know this: I know that it’s been labeled as a historical community and a historical site. So that mean that you didn’t just put anything on it. It has to be really—now, they put these crates this man building over here; you seen that?

	M:	I’m not sure.



	D:	You’ve never heard of the guy a house of three stories, I think, and it’s made out of cargo storage bins?

	M:	No, I did not know about that.





	D:	It’s bad, man. You go down that road there, you can see this one, two blocks over. Matter of fact, on an even line with my house, two blocks over. Yeah, he been building that now for a long pretty good while. They say it’s going be awesome in there. It’s not but two or three in America, and he put one in Porters. When you go by there, “Man, what is that?” It look like box cars off of a train, you know the storage cars that they have, the storage bins they have on a dock?

Those kind of things? That’s what it built out of. And I think it’s three stories. And they already done put air conditioners on it. The finished product, they have a picture of a finished product, powered by solar energy: awesome. But right now, it don’t look that good. They probably painting the stuff, but, that’s something that was put over here and the community really didn’t like, but it was already done. The city had given him permission to do it and everything. Some people don’t like the idea, but it’s different, very different. As far as the future’s concerned, I don’t know what is. But the planners know what it is. I know it’s something big, because they put a lot of money in 3rd Street right now. They ain’t investing in it for nothing. And like I say, we right two blocks from downtown or three blocks from the University of Florida. I’m looking for eminent domain to happen sometime.

	M:	It’s—you gotta wonder.



	D:	Yeah. I know a lot of Black communities have been changed, the whole thing have been changed. Tallahassee, a place called Frenchtown. St. Petersburg, a street called 22nd Street. Tampa, Florida; places in Jacksonville; and what you do, they put a highway through there, something like that. In St. Petersburg, it





was I-4, I think, that came through—right through a Black community. Yeah. So what’s going to go on in the future on this right there? I don’t know, I don’t have no ideas, bro. I don’t know. See, they just built apartments up there on—what that is, 3rd Avenue? 2nd Avenue. What street that is? Right up here, one, two—4th Avenue, and right at 4th Avenue, you got this apartment complex.

	M:	Okay, I think I know. They’ve got a lot of them going up around here, so I’m not sure on which ones—

	D:	Right there, right there, you know. The first ones you get two from here. M:	Okay, okay.

	D:	And then you know, another’s behind those; they just open up those for—they haven’t opened them up, but they’re building them ones for the graduate students, and professional students, all of that. All that used to be a bus station, and a couple of cleaners, and a church. The church was over there on University Avenue; all that was a church. Mmhm. So what’s happening is that, when you look at it, we in the middle of a lot of construction, a lot of millions of dollars; tell you that. That’s why I ain’t going nowhere. [Laughter] We in the middle of a lot of stuff, and it’s just like how you put it? It’s like gold, man. See, if that gold there, you going dig in there and go get it after a while. It ain’t going stay there. So, I don’t know what the future is. All I know is, we in the middle of everything.

	M:	I can see that.



	D:	Yeah, right in the middle. We the sandwiched in. [Laughter] Yessir.



	M:	Well, I mean, I guess this is a fairly good place to close the interview, unless you have any last thoughts to—?





	D:	Unh-uh.



	M:	Well, thank you very much. D:	Yes, sir.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Anna Jimenez; May 2, 2014 Audit-edited by:	Toni-Lee Maitland, June 27, 2014 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, June 10, 2019