AAHP 626; Anderson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 626 Essie Anderson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Marna Weston on December 22, 2008 1 hour and 4 minute | 53 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Essie Anderson talks about her early life and family, her time as a Custodial Supervisor at the University of Florida, the University Murders in the 1990s, her views on different Presidents of the University of Florida, and her retirement. Anderson relives her childhood talking about the school she went to and her life. She also talks a lot about her relationship with her family talking about their careers and aspiration. Anderson worked at the University of Florida as a Custodial Supervisor working at the university for over twenty years. As a Custodial Supervisor she has seen the University of Florida change from how Black students and faculty were treated to her perceptions of different university presidents. Throughout the interview Anderson praised Dr. Lombardi for his leadership at the University of Florida and for taking the time to talk to custodial workers. She also talks about the University Murders in the 1990s and how the university handled the situation and protected their workers. In the conclusion, Anderson talks warmly of her family and her plans in retirement including spending time with her grandkids and volunteering.





Keywords: [African American History Project, Joel Buchanan Project, JBA, John Lombardi, the University Murders, University of Florida, Black Staff at the University of Florida]

































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 626

Interviewee: Essie Anderson Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: December 22, 2008



	W:	This is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Project on Monday December 22, 2008 at approximately 9 a.m. I am in Tigert Hall in room 17 in the office of Ms. Essie Anderson. This interview is being conducted for posturing the oral history project. Ms. Anderson, thank you very much for being willing to speak with me today.

	A:	You’re welcome.



	W:	Outside on the door, there is a article from the Gainesville Sun dated September 1993 that asks what would we do without our custodians so I think it’s just really marvelous to be able to talk with you, sitting in your office where I see so many memories and you’ve told me that many of them have been taken down. But things that describe you as a mother and as a caring person and that talk about your history and beautiful pictures of your family, your children, your great grands, and it’s just, I wanna say, an honor to be able to talk with you as you close your official career here with the University of Florida.

	A:	Thank you.



	W:	Would you please state and spell your name.



	A:	My name is Essie M. Anderson. E-S-S-I-E. M stands for May. A-N-D-E-R-S-O-N. W:	May as in M-A-Y May?

	A:	M-A-E. Mae.



	W:	M-A-E may. Okay. Thank you. And when and where were you born?







A:

I was born in Lake City, Florida. January 20th, 1944.

W:

Wow. So that’s gonna be a very special inauguration for you this year.

A:

Yes, it is.

W:

So, your birthday and the inauguration all in the same day.

A:

That’s right.

W:

Now my mother was born March 1st, 1944. So, you all are very close.

A:

Yes, sure is. And I am very happy to know that my inauguration is of a change of



our first Black president.

W:

Who were your parents?

A:

Delia Green McCray and Gus McCray.

W:

Kay. Could you spell Delia please?

A:

D-E-L-I-A. G. McCray. M-C-C-R-A-Y. And my father, Gus. G-U-S. M-C-C-R-A-Y.



McCray.

W:

Now were they also from Lake City?

A:

My father was from Stars and my mother from [inaudible 2:19].

W:

Okay. So, they were in the area. What brought them to Lake City that you came



to be born there?

A:

Work. My father went there to work.

W:

What kind of work did he do?





	A:	He did like the sawmill lawns, logs, and stuff like that. W:	Do you have other brothers and sisters?

	A:	Yes, I have five sisters and I had two brothers but one died. W:	Could you tell me their names?

	A:	My oldest sister name is Deloris McCray, and my second sister is Mary E. Brown, I’m the third and my brother is M.C. McCray which he’s deceased. And I have another sister is Alberta Hopkins, [inaudible 3:08] McCray, and Gwendolyn McCray, and Earnest McCray.

	W:	What is your earliest memory of growing up in Lake City? A:	My least memory?

	W:	Your earliest.



	A:	My earliest. I can’t remember too good, but I can remember that we had a lot of pecan trees and I loved to go out there and get the pecans. And I called them biggums. [Laughter] So that’s what I can remember. I don’t remember too much about it cause we moved from there when I was 4 years old.

	W:	Okay and where did you all move to? A:	To Gainesville.

	W:	Okay and what part of Gainesville did you move to?



	A:	We lived over on, it was, now it’s called 10th. Over there where the shopping center is. We lived in that area over there. By Max Burgers over in that area.





	W:	Okay so by the main street where the Publix is and what is, there’s a soul food kitchen over there now too. Can’t think of the name of it. But—

	A:	Junior’s.



	W:	Junior’s. Yes. so, they’ve done really well, haven’t they? A:	They’ve done really well.

	W:	So, what was all of that like, that’s next to what we call the Duck Pond area now. A:	That’s right.

	W:	What was that part of Gainesville like when you were growing up?



	A:	Oh. It was nothing like, it was a house there and they had seltzers, that was the grocery store. Something like Publix is now but it was a Seltzer’s then.

	W:	How is that spelled? A:	S-E-L-T-Z-E-R-S.

	W:	Seltzers. Okay.



	A:	And then there was a railroad that ran through there where the road is now, where main street is, it was a railroad track right there.

	W:	Oh wow.



A:  There used to be a railroad track. And then it was houses on the other side of the railroad track and Seltzer was on the one side and the duck pond. The duck pond always been there.





	W:	Okay great. Now was that neighborhood predominately African American when you lived there?

	A:	Yes, it was.



	W:	Okay so pretty much as far as you’d walk and all your neighbors, everybody you knew.

	A:	Right. And then we had the school which is now A. Quinn Jones. That’s where we went to school at.

	W:	Okay now A. Quinn Jones was originally a Black school was it not. A:	Right. It was a Black school.

	W:	And you went to school there?



	A:	It was Lincoln then, but they named it A. Quinn Jones after Mr. Jones died. W:	Okay.

	A:	It was Lincoln.



	W:	Now what grades did you go to school there for? A:	I went there from 1st grade up to 7th.

	W:	Okay.



	A:	And then they built the new Lincoln. What over there now is Lincoln Middle School, and then I finished 7th grade over there.

	W:	Okay so 7th-12th at Lincoln?





	A:	Right.



	W:	Was going to school where everyone was the same as you, was that a good experience or was that an unusual experience.

	A:	It was a good experience. Yes, it was. Because now I see our kids now don’t get a chance to get our Black History like we did. Back then we got chance to know about the Black history and everything that when on about Black people.

	W:	So, about Marcus Garvey and about W.E.B. DuBois you read about and talked about those things in school?

	A:	Right. And we had Black history books, ya know, they told us about history. But now the kids don’t get a chance to do that in schools now. They read about history, but it’s not about Blacks.

	W:	It’s more like a surprise then when they find out about it.



	A:	Right. Cause my grandson come over and ask me a lot about grandma we read about Black history today, but we don’t read about that all the time. I said “no”. I said “back in our days, we did. We had Black history books and we read about it.”

	W:	Who was your most memorable teacher from school? You probably have a couple but maybe somebody you can think of—

	A:	Mr. Rawles.



	W:	Mr. Rawles.



	A:	Mmhm.





	W:	Okay and what subject did Mr. Rawles teach? A:	He taught Science.

	W:	Okay. What did you like about Mr. Rawles science class?



	A:	Well, he was very stern, we thought he was mean but now I know that he weren’t. He was there to teach us to make sure that we learn because he know we was gone have these hard times that’s coming. And he’s still living, and we see him almost every Sunday, we go to Shoney’s and we see him and his wife. Then we talk to him, I, and my sister, we say we thought he was hard back then, but we know he weren’t. That he was just trying to help us to get through.

	W:	Now where do you see him again?



	A:	At Shoney’s. Him and his wife be at Shoney’s.



	W:	Really. Okay. The Shoney’s out by the interstate on Archer Road? A:	Mmhm, it’s only one here now.

	W:	Okay terrific, so uhm do you stay in contact with him otherwise or just when you see him at Shoney’s.

	A:	No.



	W:	Do you know what part of town he lives in? I think he’d be interesting to talk to, to talk to your teacher about you know, your career and everything and how things have changed.

	A:	Yeah. Well, he live over by Lincoln Middle School.







W:

Okay. Do you remember his full name?

A:

No. I know Mr. Rawles. I can’t remember his full name.

W:

Mr. Rawles. Well, I’ll look for him at Shoney’s on Sundays. Thank you.

A:

Mmhm.

W:

See you never know what you’re going to find out in these interviews.

A:

You never know.

W:

So, I guess I’ll talk to you about the University of Florida a little bit.

A:

Okay.

W:

So, when did you start here?

A:

In January 25, 1974 but I had started working here before that, but I had to quit



because I had a child that was ill, but I started back in [19]74. January 26th, 1974.

W:

And what were your duties and responsibilities?

A:

I was working in dietary. I was working in Shands and I worked in Dietary.

W:

Okay who was your supervisor?

A:

Ms. Puckett was the head lady over the dietician and Ms. Taylor, Ms. Green, and



Ms. May Scott.

W:

Okay and what kind of stuff did you do? What would be your typical day?

A:

Okay we had to fix food and make sure get ready to take it up to the patients on



the floor, we had to go up there and get delivery for em.





	W:	I heard something interesting in the news the other day about, ya know how people do little things just pass on blessings, there’s a hospital, I don’t remember exactly where it was, but before you have a surgery all of the tubes and the surgery tools are put together and they put the name of the person on it. There was a person in a hospital, I don’t remember where it was or exactly where but they would pray over all the equipment for a personal surgery before they took it and they did that for every single person that had surgery in the hospital and nobody talked about it, nobody really knew, but this person would like lay there hands on the equipment and try to say you know they wanna have a successful surgery for the person you know to speed their healing and hope that they would do well and I wanted to know as a person working in a dietician in a hospital did you feel a responsibility to the patients as well to ya know to help speed there recovery or what was sit like for you?

	A:	No, because all we did, we just go up and take the tray in their room and put the food down and we’ll go back out and then we’ll go and pick it up and return the dishes. I wasn’t no dietician, I just worked in dietary. The dietician was the ones that made the list out for the people and see what kind of food they wanted and stuff like that. We didn’t do that. We just only carried it from the kitchen, took it up, and gave it to them. But as I go in their rooms, if I see somebody that looked like they need help I would just say a prayer and ask God to bless them and heal them. No, we didn’t do anything back then.

	W:	Was the hospital integrated at that time? Or was it— A:	Yes, it was.





	W:	Okay and had it always been like that as far as you know. A:	Yes, it has since I started.

	W:	Okay. How long did you stay there with that job?



	A:	Seven years. Cause I started in [19]74 then I left there in [19]80 when they uh— Shands went private. I stayed with the state.

	W:	What was the University of Florida like at that time because I know in 1971, they had the Black Student—the Black Friday when all the students took over the president’s office, they were upset, this was after that but what was the mood like on campus with Black people at the University of Florida.

	A:	Okay. Now I didn’t come on campus that much ‘cause I was at Shands but when I did come on campus, it was in 1981 and it was okay but not—in dietary I can tell you about dietary but when I first went in dietary it wasn’t so, ya know we had White dieticians, most of em. They was over us and then we had one dietician, Ms. Owens, she was real riled up bout our color and she was White and we were Black and she would always have meeting with us and she would tell us “oh you know you all can’t do this and that because”—how did Ms. Owens say that, she say “You know you can’t do this because you’re Black,” she was real open with telling us that we were Black and she was White about things that we couldn’t do. It was nothing we could do about it because that’s the way it was then, but then in 1976 we got a union that came in, ASPEN came in, okay and then they were go and write peoples up just for juices being in—what’s that box where they keep things cold, the uhh, the freezer. When they go in there and find





a juice they’ll just go in there and write people’s up. They didn’t even see them drink the juice, they would just say “oh so and so went in the freezer this time” cause we had to sign name, they just would assume that we was the person that dropped the juice, they’ll write you up about it. But then when we got our union back in ’76, then all that stopped it because they said unless you see someone do it then you can’t blame a person for doing that. And then a whole lot started changing when we got our union then. There was a whole different scene in dietary.

	W:	What kind of things were there that were restricted from Black employees that this woman when she would say “Well you can’t do that cause you’re Black”, what kind of things?

	A:	Okay, just like we’re coming to work, we would call in and they would tell us that we couldn’t call in on holidays, that we wouldn’t get paid and everybody had to come to work, you can come the day before a holiday, and we wouldn’t get paid.

	W:	So just basic dignities of work. A:	Right.

	W:	Were kind of denied. But that changed with the union. A:	That changed with the union.

	W:	Now how did that change; did you have good leadership or--? A:	We had good leadership. I was the president [all laughs].

	W:	Oh, so you had the best leadership.





	A:	The best leadership. They missed me when I left and when I came over when Shands went private. Oh, they missed us. We had changed so much. But ASPEN was so strong then, it was really strong. They came in strong and they tried to stop us from coming in at like—we clocked in at, we had to be at work at 5:45 and they said we had to clock in, we had 7 minutes leeway but then they tried to take the seven minutes leeway from us and just put everybody had to be there clocking exactly 5:45. That didn’t work.

	W:	Well, how can everybody clock in at the same time?



	A:	That’s what they said. Cause they had to start clocking in a little early and that didn’t work. Then we got our union to come in. When our union came in, they took over, they went to the personnel and they told them if they didn’t change it, we was gonna file a grievance. They had to change it back and give us our seven minutes. Because in the book said we had seven minutes, but they wanted to change to make sure everybody be there at seven—and we tried it, we did it for a while because we had to do it to make sure that we get paid until we got our union came in and they changed it. Then we went back to clocking and we had a seven-minute leeway. And then when we went to our meeting at personnel, then they tried to tell us—the personnel leaders tried to tell us that oh when you go in catch a plane, you got to be on time, they don’t give you a seven minutes leeway. I said “Well we not catching a plane. We coming to work.” [laughs] It was good though, when our union came in, everything a lot changed with us there and so everything got to be okay because they knew they had to go through the union before they make any changes.





	W:	So, the union helped increase the dignity of work—



	A:	Yes, it did. A lot. It really helped us a lot. Increase a lot of dignity with us. W:	Do you see—that same union still exists right?

	A:	It still exists.



	W:	How do you see the leadership with them now? I mean they’re dealing with different issues then you dealt with kind of.

	A:	Yes. Well now the union is okay but it’s not as strong as it used to be. You know it done kinda dropped back here in Florida. Now I hear on the news, I hear up the state that they are good. That the unions are good but not down here. The members have fell out, you know got out the union and they need more strong people to be around you know like I was and my sister strong, she’s the president now of the same union.

	W:	Which sister?



	A:	Alberta Hopkins Walls. She is—cause they tried to give us the night shift about 5 years ago, did you hear--

	W:	I remember when the switch happened. Yeah.



	A:	Okay but now if you remember, it was Alberta Hopkins, she was Alberta Hopkins then but now she’s married, her husband deceased, and she’s remarried so she’s Alberta Hopkins Walls now but through her and Sharon Bowers, they really worked with it and they got it changed back to the day shift. And the students, cause the students played a big part in it.





	W:	I remember.



	A:	Those students didn’t like about us going to nights. I didn’t have to go to nights. I guess because of Tigert Hall and Doug Jones was our assistant director. He was the one that kind of maybe wanted it to go to nights but then after he seen everything they were, cause people start—students was going to his house, sitting on his lawn and then went to the provost and sitting on his lawn and everything, so they finally got to Mr. Ed Pomper. He said as long as he be administrative here, the vice president, they would never go back to a night shift. So

	W:	I remember there was the protest at the retired cause the newspaper came, and I was out there for that.

	A:	Oh, you was?



	W:	Oh yeah.



	A:	Okay.



	W:	And in fact, I ended up—they took a picture of me. It was in the newspaper when I was out there. So, it just kind of happened that way.

	A:	Right.



	W:	But yeah, it didn’t seem right to say well you can work here but you gotta work at night. Nobody’s gonna see you or you know.

	A:	That’s right.



	W:	You gotta change how you live, and you know what you do is not appreciated.





	A:	And people had little, small kids and stuff like that, and they couldn’t get up to take the children to the babysitters at night. It was wrong.

	W:	Have you ever looked at how—I’m sure you’ve probably thought about this before—how when you look at the University of Florida, most of the students are White but most of the people that do things like you know, provide custodial service and cleaning up things like that appear to be Black.

	A:	They are Black. That’s right.



	W:	How do you approach your thinking about that when you’re working here?



	A:	I don’t know. The way I see—I don’t know whether people come out here and look for a job cause then they hire Whites, but many Whites just don’t come and put in for the jobs. I don’t know. Because I have three Whites working up under me, you know, and they are great employees and we get along great, but I don’t know why—I don’t know, why they don’t come. I don’t know if they come in and interview for the job and they don’t hire them and I’ve had some good White employees, some of them gone and some Hispanic. Very great Hispanic employees. And they’re great.

	W:	Would most of those people involved with the union? A:	No.

	W:	No.



	A:	Mm-mm. Because they had a great supervisor, me, so we kept everything. W:	So, they didn’t need the union.





	A:	We really didn’t [Laughter]



	W:	The union rights was automatic. A:	That’s right. I did [inaudible 18:05].

	W:	I noticed you have your bible open on your desk. A:	Yes.

	W:	Do you find that that has carried you through some of the things you’ve experienced.

	A:	Ooooh a lot. Yes, it have. And I just come in my office in the morning time when I get here. I always pray before I leave home and I pray that I come in and I read my verses too, then I come in here and I read some verses. And lately—I bought this little book last night from Walmart. Prayers

	W:	Emergency prayers. And who’s the author? A:	Deborah.

W:  Deborah Smith Pegues. P-E-G-U-E-S. A:  Mmhm.

W:  Why do you find that prayer at the beginning of the day allows you to be a more effective employee or a better person?

A:  I do because when you read the word you just get an inner feeling you know that you know you supposed to do right and help people. Sometime you might get on the wrong track. But if you read and pray and ask God to help you and ask him to





find favor. And ask God for favor every day. When I get up, I thank God for getting up in the morning, then I pray and ask him to have favor on me and my family. And that do a lot for me in the inside. And I just believe cause that’s about a praise. And my mother, she used to get up and read and she used to have prayers and have us to put them on us in the day. That’s the way she was, she— have the lord as my shepherd, I learned that prayer when I was just a little ole child, by heart. My mother used to have us to read the bible and pray. That she said keep you out of all harm and danger. And then she would anoint us with her oil and the same thing I do for my grandkids. You know the one that stay with me. The one that I tell they parents to do, the one that don’t live with me, you know it’s up to them, but they do it but that’s the way I do. And I just ask the Lord to bless us and he bless us. You know we gone have our trials and tribulations, everything ain’t gone be nice just cause you pray, cause we got to have trials to come out and Jesus to bless us. And sometimes we get—I get the down feeling and stuff like that and I look up to the Lord and say Jesus help me and he carried me through. And I believe and have that faith.

	W:	So, you have faith and prayer work. You’re involved in the union; you went to school at Lincoln. Did you all pray at school as well?

	A:	Yes, back then we did pray. Only time they took prayer out of school was when that lady— [inaudible 20:15], I can’t remember her name.

	W:	Do you think that kind of changed the school a little bit when they did that.





	A:	It did. A lot. Because, you know, it changed a lot because when you can pray, and talk to the Lord before school, I mean before—things happened, children, take that hard, some children do, but then some children not gone take it hard no way. Because it’s what they see at home. But if they see they got praying parents and everything then that might take effect on them. And sometimes it don’t, you know, it’s all in a person. But I know it did a lot with us in school cause you didn’t see all this killing and taking guns to school and stuff like you see now, back then. And we got along good and we could get whoopins by the professors we had—

	W:	Neighbors, professors, whoever [Laughter] no I know



	A:	[Laughter] I mean we had to go around, and she had—at Lincoln if we had to go and do something [inaudible 21:08] then we had to march around [inaudible 21:10] and then they would tap our leg and there was nothing you could do about it, it didn’t kill us but now you have to be careful about the school and about people. There’s so much things happen now, you don’t know if people cower or kill now and do all these things in schools, so you just have to be kind of careful about things going on now.

	W:	We talked about 1980, when you left Shands so what happened then? Here at UF what was your new job?

	A:	Well, I was a custodial worker when I came W:	Okay





	A:	A new job so a lot of people over there quit my old job, “Oh she went over there, she’s cleaning bathrooms.” I said if that’s the case it’s an honest living. So,

I didn’t know… [Phone 21:47-22:09]

	W:	Before we even talk about coming over to work with the custodial staff, how are you feeling right now about this change that’s getting ready to take. Here we are in your office with all these mementos and you said—

	A:	I’m going to miss this so much! I am ‘cause this is my little peace, that I can come here—and thank even [inaudible 22:25]. But it’s still like a little peace and quiet, I can come in and get back up in there and I can do my timecard and talk to my employees. And a lot of people come down from the floors and talk to me and I can go around and check and talk to them. I’m gonna miss it a lot!

	W:	So Tigert Hall room seventeen, who’s gonna be in here now? Have they decided?

	A:	No, they can’t decide until I go. They might be decided but I won’t know anything about it until after I’m gone.

	W:	So, nobody has asked you and said, “I want to be in your office now”? A:	Yeah, yeah, a lot of them

	W:	[Laughter]



	A:	No one, now Greg he really wants—he’s a Senior Custodial Worker—he really wants the job, but I don’t know whether he’ll get it or not, I don’t know.





	W:	Okay so this has become a haven for people to come and counsel with you and think about how to avoid problems—

	A:	Right



	W:	How to serve the university in the best way possible



	A:	Mmhm, and I had some great employees. I have nine employees and they are great employees. We get along so good. One time we didn’t—back up in the hill but it seems like we got closer as the time, what about we got closer and closer and I’m really gonna miss them.

	W:	Well, you can always still come back [Laughter]



	A:	I can come back and see them. I can’t come back to work mm-mm, I’m not coming back to work when I come back and see them you know.

	W:	Okay, did you DROP [Deferred Retirement Option Program]? A:	I DROPed.

	W:	Okay so this is the end of your five years of dropping? A:	Mhmm, December 31st [inaudible 23:45]

	W:	Okay so this is really is it—



	A:	This really is it and the name that I was told I had to sign a paper that you can’t work with the state until a year after you dropped. You can’t work anywhere for the state that have FRS [Florida Retirement System] so you know [inaudible 23:59]





	W:	Yeah, my mom is doing DROP in Palm Beach County with the Palm Beach County school system for thirty-three years and I think it ends for her next November.

	A:	She’ll be DROPing.



	W:	She already done the thirty and now she’s on the drop. A:	And she had did three years on the DROP?

	W:	Mmhm.



	A:	Okay.



	W:	So, it’s getting there.



	A:	[Phone rings] Just give a minute.



	W:	I see they gonna keep calling you, aren’t they? Oh, I can stop it. I guess the work keeps coming though doesn’t it?

	A:	Mmhm that was the main office up there [Laughter] let me write this down before I forget it,

	W:	Okay…Sorry to keep skipping around I know we were talking about 1980 but I wanted to ask you once more about AFSCME [American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees], were you involved in the leadership with all the unions? Locally? Did all y’all get together or did you just work with your union?





	A:	Well, we didn’t have a one union here in AFSCME [inaudible 24:57] and that’s all [inaudible 24:59]

	W:	But the faculty union, you know—



	A:	I don’t know see I was the president we didn’t get, now they did. It was up to the people that were getting paid by our staffers but me as president we didn’t get involved.

	W:	Okay.



	A:	We just did AFSCME that’s all. W:	Okay.

	A:	Staff might have talked to some people in faculty, I don’t know. I don’t know.



	W:	Okay so 1980 you come over and you work with the custodial branch at the University of Florida, where was your main office? Where were you housed then?

	A:	Okay, I didn’t get to be supervisor until 1986 W:	So, for six years you just worked—

	A:	As custodians.



	W:	Okay and so when you came to campus in the daytime where did you work from?

	A:	First I started in McCarty. W:	Okay McCarty.





	A:	McCarty Hall working over there and after McCarty—when we first start working, we had to catch the bus. Now we drove up to the parking lot and then we had to catch the bus on campus, and they put us [inaudible 26:04] like I had go to after I left McCarty then I start over at Matherly then the bus pick us up [inaudible 26:12] up the office up there at the compound which is PPD then we would come around he would drop us off at Matherly, everybody had a destination so many employees got off at.

	W:	So, it was an employee bus they had everybody in? A:	Mmhm an employee bus.

	W:	And would they pick you up at the end of the day or—



	A:	Mhmm they would pick us up. We got off at two, they would pick us up by one thirty and they’d have us back up there about ten minute to two so we could clock out and go home.

	W:	What was your typical day like? You start at Matherly then you got to McCarty? A:	No, I left McCarty

	W:	Okay



	A:	I stayed at McCarty for about a year and then I came over here at the Matherly Hall. And then from Matherly Hall I went to business building, I was in business building and Matherly then from there up to Tigert. I came to Tigert Hall in 1900, I never will forget that. [Inaudible 27:05]





	W:	—what makes it so memorable? Oh yeah of course. So Tigert in 1990 so in 1990 yeah there was a lot of activism on campus in 1990 cause that was when I was running for Student Body Treasurer. So, 1990 and [19]’91 there was, let’s see, the Nikitah [Okembe-Ra] Imani and the Loyal Order of the ’99 and the Black Awareness Movement and students were doing all types of stuff on campus back then. Did you find yourself supporting or advising or noticing things students were doing?

	A:	No



	W:	No



A:  Cause when we were gone, we were gone. See we came in at five and we left at one-fifteen and we was gone. Five o’clock we was out here doing—we came like ten minutes to five or something like that and we was gone.

W:   But surely you must of heard stuff



A:   Well, I heard stuff, I heard a lot of stuff



W:  You know that’s an amazing thing, one of the reasons besides just my parents raised me that way, but I just always talked to working people and if people are custodians or secretaries in offices a lot of time those are the people that know everything that’s going on.

	A:	That’s right! As soon as we had the Alligator, we read a lot of stuff. [Inaudible 28:12] we get the Alligator, and they did a lot of protest over there to the library because I was running the library too, down to that…





	W:	Plaza of the Americas



	A:	Plaza of the Americas, yeah, they had a lot of protests out there. W:	1990 was also the student murders

	A:	Oh yes and that’s when [John] Lombardi came to be president cause I came in right after Lombardi, we came together in 1990.

	W:	So, Dr. Lombardi is the president that you think about fondly?



	A:	I do, I do, he was a great president to me cause he acknowledged all of us, all custodial—every time he come, he would always give us something on holidays. He would make sure we had things and make sure we had part of his [inaudible 28:57] down. Make sure to stay off and get things for us and one day I had one of my employees was sitting up on the second floor—that was where the President’s office is—and we were sitting outside and one of the employees roll a [inaudible 29:08] and he just cleaned the glass doors and this guy and him were coming out and he said, “Don’t you touch that door!” He told the guy heading, “Don’t you touch that door, she just cleaned it.” Hit the black cause it had a black thing on it, so he hit that cause she don’t need to go over [inaudible 29:23] fingerprints off again and we thought that was so amazing—

	W:	That was Dr. Lombardi?



	A:	Dr. Lombardi and I don’t care wherever you see Dr. Lombardi he’ll wave his hand; he would speak to you. I don’t care what and he would talk to you if you want to sit down and talk to him for a minute. He would sit down and talk with





you. He just didn’t distance himself from nobody he just that kind of president and that’s why all of us adored him.

	W:	Did you also know Louis upstairs in his office? A:	Oh! That’s my best friend!

	W:	[Laughter]



	A:	That’s my best friend! Look here, I got her number right here. Look that’s a



seven that’s my Louis. That is my idol darling, she is my best friend!



	W:	What’s great about Louis?



	A:	Her personality, she love people, she don’t see any color she just love people. W:	That’s Louis Avancle.

	A:	Avancle, she is great, and she love my grandkids! Every time she always sending them gifts and as you make sure, my grandson he love the Gators and she always makes sure he gets posters and everything.

	W:	Now has she retired? A:	She retired in June.

	W:	Yeah, I saw during Homecoming at the President’s House at the Blue Key Breakfast.

	A:	Right!



	W:	So, she was there, and I got a chance to see her and she was very warm to me as well my entire time here.





	A:	She is a very great person. She’s so warm, she is. She’s so adorable. W:	So, another person you’ll miss being—

	A:	No, me and her are going to be getting together soon. I’ll be retired, she’ll be— we’ll get together and have a lunch [inaudible 31:01] some time so she’d tell me, “I can’t wait to retire so we can get together”.

	W:	That would be marvelous, I’d like to come to one of those breakfasts that would be fun [Laughter].

	A:	Alright! We will invite you, we will. W:	Well, thank you!

	A:	You have to give me your number now. W:	I will.

	A:	Okay.



	W:	So, let’s see we were talking about Dr. Lombardi and I also liked him as well. I thought it was very unfortunate how he ended up leaving, I know there was controversy when he got here because they wanted—what was her name?

Marguerite Ross Barnett, the African American Chancellor from the University of Missouri system. There was big controversy about who would the next president be?

A:   That’s right there was—





	W:	So, they picked Dr. Lombardi and people were surprised because he was an academic, he wasn’t a political pick, and it wasn’t somebody from the legislature something like that like they had before. You think they made the right choice?

	A:	Well to me I do if I probably got to know her then I could say but I didn’t know her, but I got to know him. So, by getting to know him I think he did great.

	W:	I know there was—



	A:	I’m not saying she couldn’t of did it but remember [inaudible 32:04]



	W:	Yeah, she’s passed away since then.



	A:	Yeah, that’s right because I remember that. Was she not in Hawaii? [inaudible 32:11]

	W:	I don’t remember if she was in Hawaii.



	A:	No! That was the other lady that ran for president, Shirley Johnson. W:	Okay.

	A:	Yeah, that’s who that was.



	W:	So, Dr. Lombardi is the President then we have the murders happen, that must’ve been a very difficult time here on campus.

	A:	It was so scary for us, yes it was. And Mister Gordon, he was our Director then, our Assistant Director but he was so good about it. He had all of us to work together. He said, “Don’t go out by yourself, all y’all stay in groups and make sure





you keep the doors locked until daylight and nobody goes or take any trash or anything.”

	W:	That’s right because you were working for five a.m. A:	That’s right.

	W:	So, it could’ve been any kind of devil may going on. So, there was a plan to make sure—

	A:	There was a plan—



	W:	—everybody always had somebody with them.



	A:	[inaudible 33:00] had a meeting with everybody and he told all the supervisors—I had became supervisor then cause I got to be supervisor in [19]’86. I was a Senior Custodian Supervisor I and then in [19]’88 I got to be a Custodian Supervisor II. But he told all us to make sure we work together and don’t go out and we did, and nothing happened to any custodian.

	W:	Do you think students have changed a lot since then?



	A:	Yes, because you know them White student are really [inaudible 33:37] and real friendly and I don’t see them like I see no tension between them. I don’t know cause I don’t go to school with them but the ones that do meet and come around they’re very friendly, [inaudible 33:48] and just like the customers in the office up there, they’re nice.

	W:	What about the Black students?



	A:	The Black students are nice too. They’re very nice.





	W:	Do you think that the University of Florida has changed for the good over the time that you’ve been here?

	A:	I think it have changed for the good because first Black students could hardly get in the University of Florida, now it’s going—yeah because you had to have good grades they would just, you got to have those grades, there’s the proof right there, my grandson. He graduated from—

	W:	Right here.



	A:	Right there.



	W:	Okay which one is this? What’s this one? A:	Michael, that’s my oldest grandson.

	W:	Michael’s got his kente cloth and got his honor cords and everything! Now where did he go to high school?

	A:	He went to Eastside [High School]



	W:	He went to Eastside, so now he’s here? A:	No, he done finish here.

	W:	Okay.



	A:	He’s in now with Smith and Clyde drill company.



	W:	Okay, Smith and Clyde.



	A:	He do a lot of traveling and things.





W:  And what years was here at University of Florida? A:  Oh goodness, he been graduated five years now. W:  Five years, okay so 2003 he graduated

	A:	Yeah 2003 [inaudible 34:58]



	W:	So, he probably got here in [19]99— A:	Yes!

	W:	— [19]’98 something like that? Outstanding and working for Smith Clyde now.



So, did he like his University of Florida experience? Was he happy he came here?

	A:	He liked it, he worked right here in Tigert Hall up there in Student Affairs, he worked up there.

	W:	So, he had the job and what the school [inaudible 35:16] so work-study.



	A:	Work-study and one day I seen him coming from—he went to school over there in Gerson Hall, he had some classes over there. So, one day I stand out there in the booth talking to Shelly, the girl in the boots right there and I seen him coming across, but he didn’t see me, he was holding his head down looking.

When I said, “Michael, why you look like you lost your best friend?” He said, “Oh hey grandma”, he said, “I made a D in my class and I wanted to make an A”. [Laughter] and he made an A too, he took that test over. He made the A. I said, “Well Michael okay you’ll do it, you’ll take it over”, he did.

	W:	Now, Shelly she’s been here for a long time, too hasn’t she?





	A:	Yes, she’s been here for a long time.



	W:	Yes, she told me she’s thinking of retiring of retiring sometime soon. A:	Yeah, she said she wants to joining the DROPing, she want to retire. W:	Just a change of the guard here at the University of Florida.

	A:	The changing of the guard! That’s what my grandson went down to this [inaudible 36:08] where they changed the guard, what was the name of it?

	W:	Arlington National Cemetery.



	A:	No, it’s a park. No, it’s a amusement park. W:	Oh really.

	A:	He said the changing of the guards, “Oh I can’t [inaudible 36:20]” and he said, “Grandma and they changed the guard, they be standing outside the gate and they let us in I did change the guard and they had them hats on, that’s old.” I can’t call him, that’s about two years ago he went there, it’s an amusement park.

W:  Okay I guess we’ll find that out at breakfast [Laughter]. Let’s see so 1990 we have the student murders; we’ll move past that a little bit. What did you think about the [19]90s here at the University of Florida?

	A:	I think [19]90s was…it was alright with us. Oh, but the murders and they were terrible because we were scared you know, you never know everything just dropped you be scared and all the [inaudible 36:59] but then when the guy was killing the guys too you know that’s something to think about but other than that it was okay but that was a really terrifying year.





	W:	What about the changes, I know there’s a lot more housing and all kind of—it’s got real expensive around here all the sudden it didn’t used to be like that.

	A:	It didn’t but [inaudible 37:26] he was okay but didn’t have so much to say you know he—

	W:	I didn’t talk to him even one time when he was here and that was unusual A:	He was so [inaudible 37:33]

	W:	His wife works— A:	[Inaudible 37:35]

	W:	Yeah so, he was going back and forth from California.



	A:	Mmhm, he was sick I mean she was sick, but he was nice though, he was okay.



He just didn’t have much to say like Lombardi.



	W:	Did you think Dr. Lombardi was treated fair when they left? I know a lot of people think that he should’ve been given another chance.

	A:	I think so too because the way I read what I read about him saying Dr. [inaudible 38:00]

	W:	Called the Chancellor an oreo



	A:	Yeah, called an oreo, [inaudible 38:04] but what I understand that somebody said that he said it and so I don’t know I think he should’ve been given another chance.

	W:	He certainly was good to the students and the staff but may that why…





	A:	They didn’t want that



	W:	Yeah, they didn’t want somebody that was doing the kind of stuff he was doing [Laughter].

	A:	See that and they want to get rid of you quick W:	So, President [Bernie] Machen is here now A:	Right

	W:	Have you had the chance to talk to him much?



	A:	Not much, I talk you know speaking but he don’t conversate a lot. W:	So, what are your impressions of him as the President?

	A:	He okay but some of the things that he do like he’s so [inaudible 38:49] like he support the gays and want the insurance and stuff like that, my feeling I don’t think it’s right because you can’t go and put one hour, mother’s on insurance you know you not working with them so why are they are they going to gays in being partners like put them on the insurance, I don’t think that’s right. But he supports them, he had a letter in the Alligator.

	W:	He also supported John McCain for President A:	Yeah

	W:	Do you think that its—I know you’ve been in the union and everything, people have their opinions and stuff—what do you think the role of that? Is it important for the President to say well these are my feelings or—





	A:	No, I don’t think—no, you know that’s what make people, but he can’t openly say he supported John [McCain].

	W:	Yeah, he endorsed John McCain, but John McCain wasn’t a state employee he was running for national office. A lot of people think since we’re state employees, we can say nothing about state elections but federal elections, who’s the president that’s people’s individual business so he was saying, “I’m for John McCain”.

	A:	But you know [inaudible 39:54] Shands [Hospital] where my brother work, they [inaudible 39:57] [Barack] Obama won, they couldn’t talk about it. They had a note on the clock when they clock in, “No more talking about politics”.

	W:	Really?



	A:	He said they couldn’t talk about anything, nothing cause some people was mad because Obama had won and I said, I don’t think that was right, but you know they had a job [inaudible 40:17] nobody talk about it.

	W:	Why do you think people were mad?



A:  Because they didn’t want a Black President, but my sister said this was a joke they, “We asked for forty acres and a mule but now we got fifty states and the White House.” [Laughter]

W:   [Laughter] do you think he’ll get a fair chance.



	A:	I hope so he will you know he trying to do so much but he the president you know if he get the right people behind him you know I believe he can do it and I pray





for him. I ask God to bless him and his family, but I hope he’s also praying for himself cause he got a great mind and he got to pray for himself and his family. But we can pray all we want to, but he got mind, so he have to pray too but I hope he get a fair chance.

	W:	So, the [19]90s have ended now we got 2000 from 2000 to 2008 that many years into it, what do you see as the future for the University of Florida as you move on—you transition to some new challenges but we’re going to be left here—what do you think is the university’s continuing role? What is…

	A:	I don’t know I think they get another president. I don’t know who it might but another University President. I just seemed so intimate Machen. I don’t know who the next president will be and stuff like that, but I don’t see him doing cause they keep give him raise and thing like we said, “We don’t see wages”, there are all those wages what are we doing.

	W:	It’s a lot of money



	A:	It’s a lot of money, two hundred and eighty-five thousand, he gave to the low- income students. One of them but he kept the other one and he’s the only president that came in and didn’t want to live in the President’s House—

	W:	Moved out of President House to you that was A:	—Eight hundred thousand to get his own house

	W:	Is that something that you thought he should’ve lived at the presidents?





	A:	Yeah, I think he should’ve lived there like the rest of the presidents, but he didn’t want to live there. He said he wanted his own privacy; he could’ve had his own privacy there [inaudible 42:27] say when y’all come let me know.

	W:	Get out, I’m trying to go to sleep! [Laughter] A:	That’s right, that’s what they did

	W:	A lot of change A:	A lot of change

	W:	How about the football team? Tim Tebow and all this everything about the University of Florida now because it used to be the Gators win or lose it wasn’t a big a deal.

	A:	No, it wasn’t a big a deal but now it is and I’m a Gator [Laughter] and my grandson is a Gator, Gator, Gator, and my great-grandson, but I think it’s okay, but they can’t give many money or anything but I don’t think they’ll give Chris Leach a fair chance.

	W:	Yeah, he did a good job for us



	A:	He did a good job, I don’t think they really give the benefit of the doubt, they didn’t.

	W:	But his senior year they were so excited about Tim Tebow coming it was almost like he was the person in charge.

	A:	Right!





	W:	But Tim [Tebow] is a really good guy, I’ve met him in between— A:	You have?

	W:	Oh yeah, he signed birthday cards for my mom and my dad this year. A:	Oh okay

W:  So, he’s just really approachable young man you can just sit and talk to him just like we having a conversation now.

A:  Yeah, that’s what one of my granddaughter [inaudible 43:37] but her boyfriend go to school, he’s real smart just like [inaudible 43:42] he got classes with Tim. He said he is really excellent guy.

W:   Oh yeah, I taught—



A:   [inaudible 43:46] Matherly Hall



	W:	I taught a class in McCarty, I was a T.A. [Teaching Assistant] for a leadership class this semester and line of people would come in cause they knew he was there to get him to sign stuff for him for Christmas. He made lines out the door, the teacher said, “Okay if you could take a few minutes” and then she start her class but people would just stand there and he would sign stuff for them and you know he must’ve gotten tired, everybody asking him for something but—

	A:	Did you see the Heisman Trophy? W:	I did

	A:	You see when he was operating [inaudible 44:16]





	W:	The Philippines



	A:	Philippines, he was doing [inaudible 44:18] he was doing [inaudible 44:19], they didn’t have nobody else to do it, so he did it

	W:	Yeah, he took the cist out of the boy’s leg A:	Yes!

	W:	Yeah, you know he seems really grounded. So, Chris Leak then Tim Tebow, well who was your favorite Gator football coach?

	A:	[Ron] Zook



	W:	I liked Zook too. So, he kind of got run out on the rail too a little bit, didn’t he?



	A:	He did and Steve Spurrier, I did not like Steve Spurrier I don’t care. He used to come over here and he wouldn’t even speak to us and he would come and go from the President’s, they’d have meetings we would be standing right here [inaudible 44:54]. I ain’t never liked Steve Spurrier [Laughter].

	W:	[Laughter] you think he was too big for his britches?



A:  I mean [inaudible 45:02] showed them didn’t it. He went to the NFL [National Football League], you can’t go and treat those guys like you can college guys and he came right back out of there too.

	W:	Well, he had so much stuff going for him you know, he won the Heisman, he married the Homecoming Queen, he had more money than anyone else in town, then he was the coach, he came back, and we had great success when he came back, he was a good coach.





	A:	Yeah, he was a good coach. I just liked Zook.



	W:	What did you like about Ron [Zook]?



	A:	He would sit down and voice I had never met him now [inaudible 45:36] and the boss he would talk to them like a father and stuff like that. [inaudible 45:44] one of my sons think that he was probably too easy, and I like Urban Meyers too, but Urban Meyers take that stuff you do wrong you gone.

	W:	Yeah, it’s business



	A:	It’s business you coming out to play ball and all [inaudible 45:57] broke into the car lot, what they got was Gator—what you call it a [inaudible 46:01]?

	W:	Yeah



	A:	He said he ain’t did nothing [Laughter], you did the same thing. That’s the only thing [inaudible 46:08]

	W:	Yeah, they tried to make him say that he did something



	A:	Mmhm, no he didn’t do nothing, so he want to press charges that’s it. W:	A friend of the program

	A:	Mmhm, that’s what he was W:	Did you know—

[Pause for Phone Call 46:19-47:01]



	W:	Do you see yourself continuing—of course something meaningful, something useful after you retire—what are your plans?





	A:	Well [inaudible 47:17] I’m going to go to the school, the middle school, to volunteer and with my grandkids and help and see what’s going on at the schools, I never had the chance to do that.

	W:	To volunteer?



	A:	Yeah, I can’t cause I work at five and by the time I got off of work school would be out, ready to turn out so now I have the time that I can do that and go and volunteer at schools, different schools. [inaudible 47:40] I got three of them, the smallest grandkids at and that’s at Westwood [Middle School] and Stephen Foster [Elementary School] and Norton [Elementary School] so that went on.

	W:	Yeah, I’m glad you mention that we have all these pictures on the wall with your entire family here so now which grandkids are these?

	A:	Oh, that’s my third son kids right there so that’s Kevin Anderson those are his sons.

	W:	So, I guess you need to tell me about your children cause we didn’t talk about them.

	A:	I have six kids



	W:	Six children?



	A:	Six children, I have three girls and three boys.



	W:	Okay what are their names? Can you list them from oldest to youngest?



	A:	My oldest one is Janet Williams and she have four kids. And my second oldest is Sharon [inaudible 48:27] Curtis and she have one. And my next one is





Cleveland Anderson, he have one. And the next one is Kenneth Dale Anderson and he have two. And the next one is Kevin Anderson and he have four. And Rita William, she have two.

	W:	Fourteen grandchildren, any great grands yet?



	A:	Yeah, I have—hold on now those are my biological grandchildren, but I have WHOLE lot of [inaudible 49:02] married into the family but I also already had kids so I can’t name all them but all together—I can name them, but it’ll take time—all together I got thirty-two.

	W:	Thirty-two



	A:	I got fourteen biological and the rest of them married into but all together thirty- two with grands and great grands.

	W:	Six kids, thirty-two grandkids, and how many great grands?



	A:	Let me see, Davis [inaudible 49:30] all together I think about eight, I’m not sure about eight something like that.

	W:	That’s truly a blessing, how did you balance all of it? Working and you know catching the bus, and coming to work and having a thirty-five-year career, and raising children, I mean how did you do it?

	A:	I don’t know by the help of the Lord [Laughter] and grace. Grace, I used get up in the morning time and when my sons graduate, they was home, I said, y’all need to find your own job. They were kind of slow about doing it and I was working in Matherly Hall and I had them come to work with me and [inaudible 50:06] was





the one that did so they want to work [inaudible 50:08] want to help put in the [inaudible 50:10] in Bryan Hall, they told me “Uh-uh we got to find a job because my momma get us up going to work early”, cause they have to get up at four o’clock so I could be ready and I got them early and they had came to work with me and some of them helped me work the in my building. I said, you can’t find a job till you get a job y’all come help me clean the building then.

	W:	My parents said the same thing, they used to work in—they cleaned buildings in West Palm Beach in this place called G & Jensen and when we weren’t working, we were just in school they said, “You boys worked in North Carolina, you know how to be smart and work so just come and work with us, you can help us get done quicker”.

	A:	That’s right! One of my sons, now my oldest son well he work at McDonalds, my oldest son do. He been there for about five years then my next oldest son he work at the V.A. [Veterans Affairs] and he work at the School Board, and then my next he’s a Correction Officer he’s assigned at Gainesville Treatment Center and my oldest daughter she work with the University of Florida, she got twenty…I think she got twenty-four years here. She work at the bridges out there, she used to work right in Tigert, but they moved out to bridges. And then my Sharon, my second daughter, she don’t work she have a disability. She was born with four holes in her heart, but they operated and she’s doing fine now [inaudible 51:28]. And then my third daughter, she’s married, and she got two—a boy and a girl—but her husband had other kids, but they grown now but she got two younger kids and she work in Shands [Hospital] in lung transplant.





	W:	So, it’s good everybody got a job A:	Everybody got a job

	W:	What do you think about this whole economy thing?



	A:	Oh, it’s bad and I think about the people that—the car people, the auto but we still give them the money so I hope that will help them some.

	W:	Do you think this is something that’s going to last for a while? Or maybe it’s not as bad, some people are talking about recessions, some people are talking about great depressions.

	A:	[inaudible 52:10] recession before, great depression



	W:	Well, we had that back in the 1930s and [19]20s way back in time



	A:	But I don’t think [inaudible 52:18] I don’t think it’ll get to that. I don’t—do you think?

	W:	Well, I try to think about how the stuff my grandmother taught by. Now she passed away when I first started graduate school was in November sixth of [20]’06, whatever the date it would be South Carolina cause I like to think that you know maybe grandma helped block that football because I was so sad that she died, she just didn’t want everything to be bad that day [Laughter] so maybe she helped out. But she always talked about how tough it used to be when she growing up, she said it used to be real tough. They didn’t know sometimes where a dollar was coming from so—





	A:	My kids don’t even know nothing about this, back in the [19]60s we could buy a [inaudible 53:01] two for a penny, see my children [inaudible 53:11] remember that and then we could buy a mule, a ten-cent bag of mule and stuff like that.

They don’t remember stuff like that, they was born but they still was not small



enough to remember that’s how we came up. They talk about what grandma?



	W:	I remember bread for twenty cents a loaf A:	Yeah, twenty cents, ten cents

	W:	Yeah, exactly! A big ole candy bars for a nickel A:	That’s right!

	W:	Penny candy, a handful candy



	A:	That’s right! Just like we see on Little House on the Prairie, that’s why I love that picture so, you know they go back into the old times. I wish they had all the movies like that now and [inaudible 53:45] instead of have all this rapping and cursing and all the stuff like that.

	W:	Oh yeah you give a kid twenty dollars now, they look at you what am I supposed to do with that [Laughter].

	A:	Yeah, that’s right that’s what my grandson told me this morning, he got fifty dollars [inaudible 53:58] my daughter gave it to him. He talking about—he want to go on a trip cause the school going to Atlanta in April so you got to pay the fifty dollars by January the seventh. So, I said well Davy you could save that fifty dollars [Laughter], [inaudible 54:11] “grandma do I have to keep not save my





fifty dollars to go on the trip, I think I don’t want to go on the trip, I don’t want to spend my fifty dollars”. I said, go ahead spend the fifty dollars, your mother said she gonna give it. See now, I’m his grandmother but I’m not his biological grandmother. Now his mother is—one of my youngest children married her father, okay then she lived with me while she was pregnant then when he was born, she stayed with me for about three months, three or four months then she said, “Grandma I’m gonna get me my own place to stay”. I said, Patricia don’t take that baby out there because you’re living a fast, fast life. Nobody is going to stand between me and my two nephews, I raised two nephews and niece and nephew too. So, I said let Davy stay with me, so she said, “Okay grandma”. So, she let Davy stay with me when he was about four months old, now he twelve. I had him since he was four months but now, he’s one of my children, he just by marriage but I say that’s my grandchild.

	W:	Love is all the same A:	Love is the same

	W:	So, grandmother and mother



	A:	Grandmother and mother and he went till [inaudible 55:18-55:22]



	W:	I see the signs everywhere, that’s them



	A:	So, and he went to that school from kindergarten on up to the third grade and Sister D say, “Well see [inaudible 55:37] you his momma”. We’re used to having a little Thanksgiving thing, said, “No, you his momma and you can tell





Patrice to come if she wanted to come but you his momma and we take you as his mother. All you’d did for Davy, you his mother”. I said, okay Sister D.

	W:	How big a part does your faith and going to church play in your life?



	A:	They play a lot; they play a lot I mean I really believe I got a good pastor and a good first lady and I believe they’ll save and love the Lord.

	W:	Now what are their names?



	A:	Larry James Dennison Margaret Dennison



	W:	I knew that, but I wanted to let you say it cause I do see their billboards all over the Eastside of town

	A:	Right!



	W:	Were you with that church when it first started? Have you…



	A:	Yes, I helped build the ground on the new church, so I went to the old church first cause we have a church in Porters on fifth avenue, it’s the old church and I started there.

	W:	Okay, now where was that located in Porters



	A:	On fifth avenue right across—almost across the [inaudible 56:34] is and then over the doctor’s office across the street, where [inaudible 56:40] used to be but it’s on the back end.

	W:	So, you all started there in what year?



	A:	I don’t know what year they started that church.





	W:	Okay



	A:	Cause I wasn’t going [inaudible 56:47]



	W:	It’s the big church now?



	A:	Yeah, oh you talking about the new church? W:	Mmhm

	A:	Oh, I don’t even remember what year, honest I forgot what year we started the new church.

	W:	About how members are there in the church? A:	Oh, goodness we got about eight hundred

	W:	Yeah, it’s getting close to a thousand or something more A:	More yeah

	W:	What do you see is the role of the church to help the community? We have all—



	A:	Well, they got the outreach, they have food pantry, they give on days like Christmas, Thanksgiving they give food baskets and stuff, then we got clothes closet, where they give out clothes and things to the [inaudible 57:30] you need to go there to help somebody meet you over there to get clothes.

	W:	Will you be working more with that too after you retire?



	A:	I don’t know, I might. I haven’t thought about it yet but see most of the guys do that you know the [inaudible 57:45] guy come over there—a deacon or somebody open that at the church and get the clothes and things.





	W:	How about some advice for the person that takes this job next, what would you suggest for them whoever that person will be?

	A:	I suggest they still treat the employees like they want to be treated…They not gonna let me give them advice anyways

	W:	[Laughter]



	A:	[Laughter] no



	W:	Okay for the President of the University of Florida and leaving, what would your advice be to him?

	A:	I think he should…I really don’t know, I don’t know. I just wish he’d change some of the things he do but that’s his way, that’s his lively way. I wish he would change some of the things that he did about the insurance and things but gays I wished he change that but that’s what his belief is, so I guess that’s the way it keep on going.

	W:	For your union what advice would you leave for them?



	A:	I want for the union to get stronger. I do because it’s not as strong as it used to be like when I was coming back in the [19]80s, they’re not as strong, they need to be stronger and that would help the employees a lot, a whole lot if we had a stronger union. Then they would get more members, but the membership is really down.





	W:	Would it be in the celebrate the fifty-year anniversary of Blacks integrating the University of Florida, what advice would you have for the Black students who will follow here at the University of Florida after you leave?

	A:	Well, I hope they’ll get stronger and stronger you know and just do the best that they can be.

	W:	How about the faculty, the Black faculty that will come here?



	A:	Well, if they come here, they got to be smart, if they hire them so—as a matter of fact cause I believe they are because I dealt with a lot of them there now but up there in the President Suite now, they only have one [inaudible 59:54] working up there and since I’ve been here, they never had over three [inaudible 1:00:00] working up there and I don’t think that’s right.

	W:	So, you think there’s definitely people that will be capable to work there— A:	I know, yes!

	W:	—but just not getting the chance A:	Just not getting the chance.

	W:	Why do you think that is?



	A:	With the Secretary and the President, they had more Blacks up there than when Bernie and they did since Machen been here and they got rid of some Blacks up there in the Provost’s office since he’d been here and then most of the Blacks from [inaudible 01:00:30] at all and I mean those that may [inaudible 01:00:33]. There’s quite a few [inaudible 01:00:37] nine Blacks all together.





	W:	Jackie Heart was here



	A:	Yeah, Jackie Heart was here



	W:	Tommy is still down at the end of the hall



	A:	Tommy’s here, Tommy, Heather, and she’s in the President’s suite in Florida and I think one Black in the lawyer’s office. We got about seven Blacks all together.

	W:	But fewer than you think there should be?



	A:	Yeah, ooh a lot fewer. Do you know Joel Buchanan? W:	Of course, I know Joel!

	A:	Yeah, that is my buddy!



	W:	Now Joel does this kind of thing all the time A:	He do

	W:	That’s history, that’s his thing, you know one of the first three Black students at Gainesville High School and—

	A:	I was so glad he got okay from his sickness but he’s always getting on us all the time, “Y’all don’t come and see me and my sister [inaudible 01:01:25] and I haven’t seen since he been back.

	W:	How about to just he students at the University of Florida in general, reflection on your career here, what advice would you give them once they make the commitment to come to the University of Florida? What advice would you—





	A:	They got to work hard and study hard to make it, they got to if they don’t, they won’t.

	W:	Short and sweet



	A:	[Laughter] They won’t make it



	W:	Well Miss Anderson I can’t tell you how much I appreciate it just the honor of sitting down and talking with you. It feels like I’ve known you forever although you’ve been here while I’ve been here, so you’ve been watching over me whether I knew it or not and I like to end the interview with the opportunity to give the person I’ve spoken to just talk about what they want to talk about for a little bit. There may be something that you would want to say that I didn’t touch on and just whatever that would be just feel free to talk as long as you like to and when you stop talking that’ll be the end of the interview.

	A:	Oh okay! Well, I just like to talk about myself and about what I plan to do like I said I plan to volunteer at the schools with my grandkids for a while then I plan to travel a little bit and go and get my grandkids some of them to go with when school’s out, we gonna travel a little bit. And I plan to go to Washington because that’s where my grandson that lived with me, he want to go to Washington and that’s what I plan to do and hope that we will get that chance to go to Washington

D.C. [District of Colombia] because he wants to see the White House in person, and he wants to ride on a train which I’m scared but I will go. I rode on one train in my life, I was a little girl then, but I will try to go to train and go to Washington

D.C. to see the White House and I want to encourage all my grandchildren to do





the best they can and make it in school and my grandson Davy he wants to be a Gator cause he loves the Gators and he love Tebow [Laughter]. So, I just hope that everything works out find for everyone that I’m leaving behind, my Assistant Director, Mr. Baker and Dan Simmons, I hope everything works out fine with them too. They’ve only been here for three years as our Assistant Director and Dan I think he already joined the DROP, Dan but I wish the best for them and their families too and all my employees and everyone and all the customers here. So, as I retire, I’m going to miss it, but I got to go so… that’s it.

	W:	Thank you very much Miss Anderson









	Transcribed by:	Omar Sanchez, February 8, 2021 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 12, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 18, 2021