AAHP 433; Atkins; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 433 Gwendolyn Atkins African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Vickie Oldham on November 20, 2015 34 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ms. Gwendolyn Atkins reflects on moving to Newtown, Florida as a newly married and newly licensed nurse in 1964. She reflects on her time working as a public nurse for the Sarasota County Health Department going door to door providing care. She discusses Henrietta Gales, the first African American nurse that worked at the Sarasota County Health Department who paved the way for her. She also reflects on how the community operated and her memories of her husband serving the Black youth as a teacher. She concludes the interview sharing her thoughts on what she hopes for her community and how to cultivate that sense of community again. She was a graduate of the Florida A&M University Nursing Program.



Keywords: [African American History; Joel Buchanan Archives; Newtown, Florida; Black Nursing; Public Health Nursing]



Standards:

	SS.912.A.7.6 Assess key figures and organizations in shaping the Civil Rights Movement and Black Power Movement.

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws





























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 433 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Gwendolyn Atkins Interviewer: Vickie Oldham

Date: November 20, 2015



	O:	Today is November the 20th. What is your name? A:	My name is Gwendolyn Atkins.

	O:	And Mrs. Atkins, where did you grow up in Sarasota?



	A:	I didn’t grow up in Sarasota. I grew up in Boston, Georgia. Actually, I was born and reared in Boston, Georgia and I came to Sarasota because I got a job here.

	O:	And where did you live when you settled for a job here?



	A:	I lived over on 35th street. Not far from Booker High School. O:	Tell me about your parents and who they are.

	A:	My parents are back in Georgia. Willy Lee Mackever and Willy Mackever were my parents back in Boston, Georgia.

	O:	Now what were the circumstances that brought you here for the job?



	A:	When I graduated from nursing school at Florida A&M University, my husband had graduated before me because I got married my senior year in college so he had a job teaching at Booker High School. So when I was ready to graduate my senior year, I just applied in this one county, Sarasota, Florida—Sarasota County—because my husband was already teaching at Booker High School. So that brought me here. Once I graduated, I came here and I got a job at Sarasota Memorial Hospital as a nurse.

	O:	Now what year was that about?



	A:	That was in 1964. The year that I graduated from college at Florida A&M University Nursing School.

	O:	Making sure that you get Florida A&M University in there!





	A:	Oh absolutely! That’s the love of my life; my school.



	O:	Alright. Mrs. Atkins tell me about working at Sarasota Memorial, then. Some of the people that I’ve interviewed do share with me their experiences at the hospital. So tell me, as an African American nurse coming into the hospital.

	A:	I had a great experience. When I came as a nurse right out of college, Mrs.



Amond was—she was not the nursing director but she was over the education program and I needed to have experience before I took the state boards for nursing. So I asked her if she would put me on a different services like maternal and child health, psychiatric nursing, pediatric nursing, medical, and surgical nursing and I rotated every three months at different services so that I could get experience before I went to take the state boards in Jacksonville.

	O:	And it all worked out?



	A:	It all worked out wonderful and I enjoyed my experience at Sarasota Memorial Hospital.

	O:	How long were you there for?



	A:	I worked there for two years. From 1964 to 1966. O:	Treating Black patients and White?

	A:	I treated everybody. I was not on One North, I was just able to go all over because I was getting experience from different services so I was not located just at one floor. I rotated to all the different services. That’s what I asked to do before I took the boards so that I could get a lot of experience.

	O:	So perhaps there were African Americans on one floor?





	A:	What I was told that most of the African Americans were on One North when I first came there but, I didn’t never work on One North. I just worked all over the hospital at different areas. I never did work on One North.

	O:	What happened after you left Sarasota Memorial Hospital?



	A:	I went to Public Health Nursing and that’s where I spent most of my career as a nurse at the Sarasota County Health Department.

	O:	Oh you gotta—



	A:	I chose Public Health Nursing.



	O:	You’ve gotta tell me what that experience was like. How did you move around the community? Who did you treat? Who were you assigned?

	A:	At that particular time, the health department was right in front of the hospital on Hawthorne Street. So that was back in 1964. So all you had to do was walk across the street, I did, I was hired in 1966, and I worked. The difference is, you had to have a car because in Public Health Nursing your hospital was the community so you went from door to door taking care of patients in their homes and I enjoyed that very much. I had to get a car. I was able to purchase a small car, my husband taught me how to drive, and I was assigned a district in the Newtown community.

	O:	Oh you’ve gotta tell me about your experiences going door to door treating—who did you treat?

A:   I treated everyone in the home who was ill. We did comprehensive nursing care. I really was assigned to a district and each one of the public health nurses had a district. African American nurses, at that time, we were all assigned to the





Newtown area, we all had a district, and you took care of the patients in that particular district. That was everybody in the home even though I did a lot of maternal and child health nursing which was taking care of single moms and babies but yet, while you take care of the single moms, the babies, you also took care of the adult patients as well. Whatever was in that home that needed treatment, whoever was in that home that needed treatment, those are the patients that you took care of.

	O:	Do you remember what the babies and moms needed most?



	A:	Well, you would actually start with the mom when she first conceived the baby and so you kinda walked with her through the entire process from conception to delivery and you helped her get into the doctor to get her vitamins, to get into her doctor visits, to help her prepare the layettes. You know, the whole gambit. You just walked with her the whole nine months period making sure that she was taking her vitamins that she was eating properly, that she was getting prepared. For those who wanted to breast feed the baby you made sure they got into those services and they were taught. So you did the whole gambit. I enjoyed all of it.

	O:	Now you did tell me that these were young mothers; single moms and there was a difference in how you had to handle them and how they handled their babies because this was a new experience.

	A:	They were very young for the most part. The moms were teenagers. Most of the ones that I saw were single teenage moms and they were afraid because first of all they were very young themselves and this was a brand new experience for them. However, we always relied on the grandmothers. The grandmothers were





always there to give support to the very young moms and many of them were disappointed. They were hurt by some of the experiences that they had had with some of the fathers of the children. So we were there to give support, to give encouragement, to tell them that you know, this was not the end of the world and they had a lot of living to do. They were young. So we taught them a lot and we encouraged them a lot and helped them through. You know helped them through the process of being a mom and then when the baby was born, we went into the hospital to visit them while they were there with the baby. We did discharge planning to help them to come back home and then once they got home, we went into the home again and then this time, we concentrated on the baby.

	O:	It sounds like you were an extension of their family almost.



	A:	We were, we were. Yes we were an extension and we were just there for them, to give them support and encouragement.

	O:	you know I see this smile on your face and it just seems to me that you love this and not past tense, but maybe you still do.

	A:	Well I do a lot of volunteer now in the community. I am really a community- oriented person and even though I’m not practicing as a registered professional nurse, I still am available to my community. I’m available to the people. I wanna be available. Anytime anyone call me, “Ms. Atkins” about a question about health, actually, tomorrow I’m doing a teaching at State College of Florida to my sorority and I’m gonna be teaching on Alzheimer’s Disease. I’m gonna be teaching on heart disease and I’m gonna be teaching about strokes, so anytime I’m asked to teach, I’m ready to teach. Last month, which was Breast Cancer





Awareness Month, I did five different teachings at different places. Two at a church with the women’s ministry and I did three in the community when it was all about health, teaching people how to take charge of their health, and to do good breast health. That was what it was all about last month.

	O:	Well tell me something. You and I know Henrietta Gales, your colleague. A:	Yes.

	O:	And we’ve gotta tell her story in telling this story because we may not get a chance to talk with her on camera like this so tell me about her.

	A:	Henrietta Gales was the first African American nurse that worked at the Sarasota County Health Department. She actually broke the barrier, opened the door for the rest of African American nurses to walk in, she is our example of a very good public health nurse that worked in our community, and made in-roads in our community. She also worked at the migrant camp and she did a lot of work with the Spanish speaking people, so I can never say enough of Henrietta Gales- Cunningham which she is now.

	O:		You all would set up all sorts of temporary places for immunizations. When I was with you all, I heard you talking about setting up a table in the driveway of, was it Holton Seniors or Mr. Steven’s driveway?

	A:	I think she set up some—what we did was I had the housing authority, I had the projects, the Newtown projects. So most of my going from door to door was walking. Once I parked my car in the parking lot of the Newtown housing authority, housing projects, I didn’t have a lot of driving. I just did a lot of walking. So what I would do was bring a card table with a white table cloth and I would set





it up in the parking lot and everybody knew “The nurse is here! The nurse is here!” and you would hear little kids saying “My nurse is here! My nurse is here!” So I would set up the card table with a white table cloth and the kids would just come running and I would treat impetigo, which is really sand sores, what they had gotten from the sand playing in the dirt, and I would treat them. Then we did ring worms and oh, we did all kinds of colds and different kind of little abrasions and we placed Band-Aids, but we did a lot of immunizations with kids. We did DPT which is Diphtheria, Pertussis and Tetanus. We did those. We did Polio. We did small pox. We did it all.

	O:	Describe what this housing community looked like. This public housing, if you can remember.

	A:	Well it was just housing projects. The homes are very close together as they are now and—

	O:	Grass? No grass?



	A:	Some. Some grass and some not grass, but we really weren’t there to see the place as we were there for the people. So that was really what it was all about. To see, to go in, to assist the people, to encourage the people, and to help them in any way that we could.

	O:		Now you know I’m remembering two stories that you told me that I’d like for you to share. One is of the man that you treated who was an older man and he had just neglected himself basically and you went in there and just—

	A:	Yes he lived alone and he was lonely and I never did see any family members. So, when I walked in, his feet was filled with maggots all around both of his feet





and a lot of people would have walked out but I didn’t want to leave him the way that I found him because my motto was to go into a home and to make it better for the patient than it was when I first met the patient. So what I did, I went into the kitchen, I found a pan we call a little dish pan, and he did have hot water. So I filled the pan with hot water and I came back and I rolled up his pant legs and I put his feet in the dish pan and then I soaked his feet and I put some soap, soaked his feet and the maggots just came out in the water. Just came out so I just took them out, threw out the dish pan, just kept filling it until his feet was nice and clean, then I washed his feet with a cloth and some soap, dried his feet, then I made him feel better, then I went into the kitchen and I washed the dishes and there were maggots from old, dried, rotten food. So I just took care of the situation. I did it but I was not alone. At that time, it was myself and another public health nurse by the name of Ms. Anne Wetherington. Anne Anderson Wetherington. The two of us was working with him together. So we did work with him and we cleaned him up. Cleaned up his bed, cleaned up his kitchen, cleaned up his feet and when we left there, he felt so much better, he looked better, and we felt better about what we had done to make him feel better.

	O:	Wow that’s some story talking about doing what you must do. Going in and surveying the situation, you did that. What about that story that you told me the day that you got a call that somebody couldn’t make it over to treat the lady downtown? There was a lady that lived downtown and—

	A:	Oh, Mrs. Bar. Yeah Mrs. Bar—normally, as I said before, the African American nurses, our district was in Newtown and at the time we only treated the African





American patients. You know we didn’t do the White patients. Well, Mrs. Bar called and she was in a White area and her nurse, which was a White nurse, had already gone out into the field and she needed help. So I was in the office and whenever a patient called, wherever, you had to go. You had to drop the paperwork and go. So that particular day I went and she was downtown and I knocked on her door and she was an older White lady. She was ninety years old and she was very surprised when I came and she said “Oh why did they send—“ she didn’t say African American she said another word. “Why did they send” she used the word “N” and I said, “Mrs. Bar” I said, “I am here to take care of you” and I said, “I’m qualified to take care of you otherwise my supervisor would not have sent me.” So I did. I went in and I did a nursing assessment and I did her vital signs. I took very good care of her. I did what I was supposed to do. I recorded everything and she had to get used to me as being an African American nurse in her home, which she was not used to, but I did what I was supposed to do and I was very professional in everything that I did. Finally, when it was over and I finished working with her and I left and I told her that I would make sure I told her nurse that she had been ill and I would report everything that I had done with her nurse and I did. So, later on about two weeks later, she called down to their office and she asked if they would send “that Ms. Atkins back.” So they sent me back and I stopped by and she had picked beautiful flowers, a bouquet of flowers from her garden and she said “I would like for you to take these and put them on your table for Thanksgiving” and I did. She said, “anytime in the future that you would like to have flowers for your table, please stop by.” So, I never did





stop by but I felt like I had made in-roads with this lady, being an older White lady who was not used to an African American nurse coming in her home. I went in and I think, I did what I was supposed to do, and I think I established, more than anything, a relationship with her that would make it easier for the next African American nurse to go in.

	O:	Right.



	A:	So I was real pleased with that.



	O:	Who were some of the people that you knew in the Newtown area as you were growing your young family? Some of your friends maybe?

	A:	Oh Ms. Mariana Jones, Dr. Ed James who does Black armenate. His grandmother was very influential to me.

	O:	Why do you say that?



	A:	Well she ran a taxi stand. She had a café and she had a guest home and at that particular time, African Americans could not live in hotels downtown. She had what she called the “Guest House” and that means if any African Americans came to Newtown to go to some kind of activity, that they would stay at her guest house.

	O:	For free?



	A:	Oh no. You had to pay, but at least there was a place that you could stay. You know a lot of places like for example, if show people came and they would do a show but they could stay in the hotels but because she had a guest house, they could always come to Newtown and stay at her guest home. She had a beautiful guest home. It was two stories. So that, I enjoyed Ms. Jones. Ms. Jones was so





influential in many other ways with us, teaching us different things. Another person was Mrs. Ellie Suarez. Mrs. Suarez ran the post office and as a public health nurse, there were times I could not find people at home and Mrs. Suarez knew where everyone lived and I would go to the post office and she would tell me. Like I was trying to find patients to get them into the clinic. For an example, if they didn’t come in and the doctor was expecting them to come in for a treatment and they didn’t and I couldn’t find them, then I would go to Mrs. Suarez and she would tell me exactly where to go and find them. So she was very, very influential and helping me as a young public health nurse.

	O:	Wow. Any others you wanna—you could mention anybody else. Any others? A:	I’m trying to think.

	O:	So then while you’re thinking about that, what about shopping along the district and what that was like because you lived in Newtown.

	A:	I lived over by the school on 35th Street and another one was Mrs. Viola Sanders.



I’m sure you know her. Mrs. Sanders was also almost like a right hand to me because my daughter at the time was having some health challenges and my husband and I were both working and Mrs. Sanders… I would have my daughter, I would get her up, get her dressed, and take her to the babysitters, but she needed further treatment and she needed to go to Happiness House. Mrs.

Sanders would go and pick up my daughter from the babysitter, take her to Happiness House and she would stay there through the treatment that she had and then she would bring her back. She did that three times a week because my daughter was not walking and she would go to Happiness House and they would





but her in the bars and they would teach her how to walk because she was born with some mental challenges, but Mrs. Sanders was like a right hand. She would pick up my daughter, take her to Happiness House, stay with her through the treatments, and bring her back to the babysitter and she did that three times a week and I really will always appreciate Mrs. Sanders for having helped me with my daughter.

	O:	That’s great. What about where you attended church when you were coming through as a young couple? Where did you go to church?

	A:	My husband was an Episcopalian and so we went to St. Wilfred’s Episcopal Church. We were one of the first Black families.

	O:	In the [19]60s?



	A:	In the [19]60s. We had gone out to the church and we talked to the pastor who was the priest and we asked if we could become affiliated with the church because at the time, St. Martha’s, the Catholic Church on Orange Avenue, had opened up its doors to African Americans. So St. Wilfred’s followed and they allowed us—we were the first Black family that actually desegregated the church and my husband and my two children and both of my children were dedicated or christened in St. Wilfred’s Episcopal Church. We stayed there for twenty years. There were other African Americans that came while we were there but we were the first and when my son graduated from high school, at Sarasota High School, the priest’s daughter graduated from Riverview High school at the same time and his wife was a public health nurse just like I was. So we were both working at the County Health Department and our children were both in high school. So when





they graduated from high school, Beth-Anne at Riverview and Ryan at Sarasota High, the church gave both of them a scholarship to college.

	O:	How nice is that?



	A:	So both of our kids went away to college with scholarships from St. Wilfred’s Episcopal Church.

	O:	Alright. What about your social life in the community in the [19]60s? Did you have a social life?

	A:	Well I really—not a whole lot. We were going to different activities whenever we could find the time, but we were raising our kids, we were going to church, and my husband was… I was not at the time a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority as I am now or either a FAMU alumni because I was basically going to church, going to work, and taking care of my kids. As the kids got older, then I became a little more socially inclined in the community.

	O:	Tell me about how Newtown looked? You said that you couldn’t really remember so much the public housing and how it looked because you were treating the people but, your community where your house was and so forth. I’m understanding there were unpaved streets really?

	A:	Not while I was here. When we came in [19]64, my husband came in [19]63/62. When I came here right out of college in [19]64, when we lived on 35th Street, the streets were paved. They really were. I heard people talk about Over Town. You know I never experienced that. I never did experience—when I came here, where I lived, the streets were paved and Newtown was booming with businesses when





I came to Sarasota. There were so many restaurants that you could stop in as a public health nurse or anyone.

	O:	Where did you stop?



	A:	I stopped to a lot of the restaurants and have lunch, dinner. I don’t really remember the names per se.

	O:	Maybe the barbeque stand?



	A:	I used to stop at Mrs. Jones. She ran a barbeque stand, I would stop and get a sandwich there, right next to Mrs. Jones was Mr. A.C. Jenkins, and he had a gas station. Then Mrs. Suarez had the post office and right next to the post office was her husband and he also had a gas station—Mr. Suarez. But there were lots of restaurants that were downtown and it was 27th Street then. It wasn’t called “Martin Luther King” it was 27th Street and there were all kind of nice restaurants that you could stop in, get food, a good hot meal, and it was just booming with business at that time back in the early [19]60s.

	O:	What was the feel of the community?



	A:	I enjoyed it. It was like togetherness. We were doing a lot of things together. A lot of people lived over behind the school. Booker High School was booming with lots and lots of activities and we all lived right around the school. My husband taught at Booker High School and we knew the people in the community. For an example, if he was teaching a kid and he didn’t feel that that kid wasn’t working at their greatest potential, before he would allow the kid to have a failing grade he would make a visit to the home. My husband did that many times. He would make a visit and he would talk to the parents and let the parents know that the





kid was acting out, the kid was not doing their work and he didn’t wanna see the child fail. It’s like the teachers took a lot of interest in the children during the early [19]60s at Booker High School and even the school where I came from back in Georgia, the African American teachers would ride away to get scholarships for us. For an example if our parents didn’t have the money for us to go to school, and the teachers saw that there was potential that you could, you know you could go away to school and you could actually finish college, they would write to the colleges and get scholarships for you and so it seemed like they were an extension of your family really. It really was so different from the way it is now.

	O:	That’s what I was going to get to. Where we are now, where are we now and where do we need to be?

	A:	Well, it’s just different now than what it used to be in terms of the schools. I’m not saying—there’s a lot more technology. I think that part is good. It really is but it seems like I don’t know that the interest is there as it was years ago and it seems like kids don’t seem to value school. Like they’re ready to drop out now and when I was going to school it was like, you were prepared. You knew when you graduated from high school that you were going to college. It’s like your parents had you prepared and I remember even though we didn’t have the money, I had to work for a year before I even went in, but I knew I was going to be a nurse one day. It was like it was always been talked about in the homes that once you graduate from high school, you’re gonna go further. Even if you didn’t want to go to college you were going to a vocational school but you’re gonna do something. In other words, you were not gonna be on the street. Your parents let you know





that from day one. You either going to college or you going to a vo-tech, but you were not gonna be walking the street. So out of the four of us, it was in my immediate family, three of us graduated from college and three of us graduated with master’s level degrees and it’s because our parents pushed us. I mean it was something always—everybody knew you was gonna do it. It’s just a matter of where you were going. You know you was going to school. That was not a question.

	O:	How can we improve Newtown and what needs to be improved?



	A:	Well I think it’s coming together and we’ve been doing these “Join the Conversations.” We’ve been doing that lately. Earlier this year, we took some courses with the Patterson Foundation with Dr. Lisa Murich. She spearheaded it and we came together. Several of the community leaders like Lorna Austin, Dr. Murich, Mrs. James, Mr. McLeod, lady from the health department Pastel Ewol, several of us came together and we took this course with the Patterson Foundation and the basic of the course was “How can we improve our community?” “What can we do to make our community safer?” So we took this course and it was six or eight weeks, then we came back, then we started “Join the Conversations” where you would invite community leaders to come in, and we invited the Police Department to come in first and talk about how we can make our community safer. To raise our children and our families and be a unit where everybody love each other like it used to be and everybody could discipline each other’s kids like it used to be when my kids were coming up. We had a segment of our community where any one of the parents in the community





could discipline the child and everybody was just a tight-knit community. Everybody was interested in our children succeeding. So what it took is like “Takes a community to raise a child” and that’s what we did. You know we really did so I think we just need more togetherness and all of us with the same vision and the same mission: to make our community safer so that our children can succeed and everybody with the same mission and vision and goal to see our children succeed and see our community safer.

	O:	I gotta ask you this one thing, the illnesses that you treated back in the day in the [19]60s, [19]70s and [19]80s versus the illnesses that you’re seeing today, what are the differences?

	A:	Well nowadays they have a lot more medicines than they did have way back then because we did a lot in the community. Actually, the nurse was the person. We did a lot of treating ourselves and nowadays they’ve got a lot more doctors, a lot more up-to-date medicines, a lot more technology. They have laser treatments.

We didn’t have any of that during my time and nowadays, people can go in… We don’t make public health nursing visits like we used to do years ago because we don’t have the money and they don’t even create the time, so people come into the clinics and there’s doctors and a lot more specialists regarding whatever the condition is or the disease is. It’s more modernized now.

	O:	Are you seeing more diabetes among African Americans?



	A:	Yeah we are. We’re seeing a lot more diabetes and a lot of that is because of obesity because obesity enhances diabetes Type II and we’re seeing a lot more people now that are obese.





	O:	Is that the number one among African Americans in this town?



	A:	It’s not number one. I would say heart disease is number one for both African American men and women. It’s the number one killer, but certainly diabetes has its place as strokes, diabetes, kidney disease; a lot of the health disparities that we’re dealing with every day.

	O:	Would you like to add anything more Mrs. Atkins? It’s been a delight.



	A:	Well I think I’ve just about covered whatever you’ve asked me. I’ve enjoyed the experience.

	O:	Thank you.



	A:	Thank you, too. I have no idea when I will ever stop. My days are full every day and usually my agenda is two to three to four things that I have to do a day and most of it is working in the community helping someone. And I enjoy it and even if I had to do it all over again, I would choose public health nursing and I would choose serving my community. That’s what I love more than anything else. [Laughter]

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:  Sandra Romero, January 10, 2017 Audit-edited by:  Austyn Szempruch, March 7, 2017 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 6, 2020