AAHP 096; Pittman; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 096 Jimmy Pittman African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht on August 21, 2010 14 minutes | 12 pages



Abstract: Jimmy Pittman begins the interview by stating that he has lived in Perry, Florida for his entire life. Jerkins was an all-Black school in Perry, but after integration in 1970, Pittman took welding classes on its campus. He discusses what it was like in Perry at the time of integration and the experience of being White in a formerly Black school. He stresses that it was “not a big deal.” Pittman says that integration was forced on the people and that White and Blacks alike did not want it to happen. He says that people eventually accepted integration because they knew there was nothing they could do to stop it, and Blacks and Whites in Perry have learned to get along since then. The interview concludes with Pittman talking about Jerkins’ abandoned facilities and how they could be useful to people today.



Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 096

Interviewee: Jimmy Pittman Interviewer: Anna Brodrecht Date: August 21, 2010



	A:	But I’m Anna Brodrecht from the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida.

P:   Nice to meet you.



	A:	Yeah. And we are doing kind of—we are here this weekend to just kind of talk about Jerkins—

P:   Uh-huh.



	A:	And hear people’s stories about it and all that kind of stuff. And they said that you took welding classes here after integration.

P:   Right.



	A:	So I’ll ask you a lot about that but— P:	Okay.

	A:	So let’s start by saying—just say your name and spell it.



	P:	My name is Jimmy Pittman, P-I-T-T-M-A-N, I’ve lived here in Perry all my life.



Went through all my school here in Perry and attended—actually it was a vocational-type welding program that was here in the Jerkins center here. I had to weld in class. I went here three years; 1973, 1974, graduated in 1975. Did half a day welding there in 1975 until I graduated. The teacher was Mr. William Kimball; everybody called him Hank Kimball. I don’t think Mr. Kimball is with us no more but excellent teacher. He was retired from NASA and he taught kids to be welders.

	A:	Okay.





	P:	Many students enjoyed it; it was fun to come to school and work under Mr.



Kimball.



	A:	Okay.



	P:	A knowledgeable man, really enjoyed it.



	A:	Nice. Okay, and so what year were you born, first of all? P:	1957.

	A:	Okay so you were born and knew about Jerkins as a Black high school— P:	Sure.

	A:	Or as a Black school. P:	Uh-huh.

	A:	Did that ever, you know, what did you know about Jerkins?



	P:	Just that it was another school separate from the White schools, you know, and back then you had to—before the integration—the Black kids would come over here and the White kids went to the schools we had.

	A:	Uh-huh.



	P:	Basically that’s— A:	Just the way it was. P:	The way it was.

	A:	Yeah.



	P:	Yeah and nothing different about it.



	A:	Okay and do you remember about how the White community heard about integration or how Perry in general heard about integration?





	P:	Well, you know, I was pretty young then but, you know, it was pretty much just at that time I think it was kind of an uproar whenever it was first brought out when they was going to integrate the Whites and the Black because it was a new challenge, it was different bringing the Whites and Blacks together. Didn’t know how it was going to work. I think the biggest thing about it was the uncertainty and it being different from the way things had always been done.

	A:	Right.



	P:	Yeah.



	A:	Yeah the majority of people that I’ve interviewed about it have just said, “That’s just the way it was.” Like it wasn’t a choice that anybody had, it was just that was the way it was. And so a lot of people have also said when integration happened they expected it to just happen overnight?

	P:	Uh-huh.



	A:	But you have to—it’s difficult because you have to think, you know, you have to change everything that you grew up—

	P:	Well it was a gradual process, you know, the kids had to learn and the parents had to learn. It was something totally different, you know, the White community basically, back then, they expected their kids to go to White schools and the Blacks the same way. And whenever they was told it was going to be integrated at all, you know, the Blacks didn’t want it, the Whites didn’t want it. So it was kind of a two sided thing, you know, we was going to—and then back then whenever they started integrating at that time, I think it was shortly after they shut down the Jerkins school here which was the primarily Black school and moved all the





Blacks over to the White schools. So it was a big change and change is the biggest trouble to most anybody. And nobody expected a forced change and that was a forced change that I don’t know—some people it was fine and some people it wasn’t. So to me it was—I had no issues with it. No big deal for me.

	A:	Right, uh-huh. Yeah and that’s something I think that’s not really in the history books—or at least I haven’t read about it—is whether or not Black people wanted to go to White schools.

	P:	Uh-huh.



	A:	I mean there wasn’t a choice— P:	It was forced.

	A:	It was just another law— P:	Right.

	A:	That you had to go whether you liked it or not. P:	Exactly.

	A:	And I don’t know if anybody has really asked Black people, “Did you want to go to a White school?”

	P:	Uh-huh.



	A:	And so being in a White school, did you hear any of those reactions or anything?



	P:	Well it was rough to start with because of the—I don’t know how you would really word it—it was the difference of the cultures of the Blacks and the Whites and then there was a lot of problems in the schools—

	A:	Uh-huh.





	P:	In the 1970s when I was in school and all until everything was, you know, integrated together. And they had to learn to get along.

	A:	Right. Like a mental integration.



	P:	That was the biggest part of just getting the students to get along because they had always been in different schools. And a lot of it I felt like was, you know, coming from the home too because the parents would still say, “Well we want our kids to stay in the Black school.” And the White kids say, “Oh well we want our kids to be different.” So it was the forced change and learning to adapt to it. And it took a long time. It sure did, it took a long time.

	A:	Yeah it sounds like there wasn’t really much planning and it doesn’t sound like the government thought how is this going to affect people?

	P:	Right.



	A:	You know?



	P:	Yes, well it’s like a lot of the laws today. They force the laws on you and you just have to deal with them. Whether you like them or not.

	A:	Uh-huh. And then here we are fifty or sixty years afterwards—



	P:	And you’re still dealing with basically the same thing except now it’s not a Black/White issue, it’s an American law issue. Laws are being forced on us that have basically—some you have to say something about and some you don’t.

And some is good for you and some is not.



	A:	Uh-huh. So I wonder how that change, you know, because the government came in and said, “This is the way it will be. Everybody has to get used to it.” Did that change the political stance of Perry too? Like was that one of those spots when





people say my political views because I know how the government treated us that day—those years.

	P:	I don’t think so. I don’t think it’s the way people thought. Really changed the way, you know, the views and all—it took time. It took time to accept and see things and all but it was a forced view and everybody knew it was just something we were going to have to get used to and there was no changing it.

	A:	Right. Yeah so it makes you wonder if that—I don’t know it’s just so difficult for me to imagine how that would have been. Because I was born long afterwards and I’ve heard my parent’s stories about it and how there were some people that were just super progressive and they said, “No this should happen.” And then there was other people that said, “I’m not going to that school anymore.”

	P:	Oh it was—I think it went on for several years still the discussion and debate— and the proper word was the forcefulness—it was forced on them. The people didn’t like things being forced on them, nobody does.

	A:	Right.



	P:	And it was a change and it took time for them to finally say, you know, “We’ve got to accept it. This is the way it’s going to be and we can’t change it and we can’t put it back like it was.” So it was progression and to move on. And it took—it wasn’t something that happened in a year or two. It was several years.

	A:	Yeah, it’s probably still happening today. There’s probably still—



	P:	No, I don’t think it’s as big an issue today as many people think it is. I honestly feel the Blacks and the Whites get along good today a million times better than in the past because of integration.





	A:	Right. So fifty years or sixty years was enough. It was at least so we can start seeing physical changes.

	P:	Well people have learned, you know, we all are Christians under one God. And a lot of that is trying to be taken away from us in our schools. Which to me is the worst thing in the world, taking Christian out of schools but the Blacks and the Whites, we all worship one God. And whenever you bring Christian people together, whether it’s in school or in church, you get along. It’s not a, “I’m Black and you’re White.” You know, and this is the—my view of big problems in schools today, of government problems, of religion trying to be took out of school.

	A:	Uh-huh. Okay, and then to get to your experiences here at Jerkins, was it, you know, when you decided to come here was there an institutional memory? Like a memory of the fact that this was a segregated school? Or did it seem like that had just been brushed away?

	P:	Well it wasn’t a big deal, I was—they told us whenever I was coming to welding— this is where we would come for our welding class. Come over here, had no issues what so ever, you know, this school was—I think we still had some offices over here which some of the teachers had offices, administrators. And as far as—I’m not sure. I think there was an E&I shop here too at that time.

	A:	Okay.



	P:	A welding shop along—



	A:	Okay what does that mean? What is E&I?



	P:	Electric and Instrumentation. I think there was an instrument shop over here then teaching in school, too. Well, along the same time.





	A:	Uh-huh. Yeah, except for some reason I was under the impression that in 1970 they shut this school and it just wasn’t used for forty years or something. But it was.

	P:	Uh-huh. No, it was used. You know we had—I was trying to think—there was probably twenty or twenty-five in our welding class. That was an everyday thing and it wasn’t, you know, it was not the same age group. It was young kids from beginner welders to advanced, you know. You come in as a first year welder, then a second year welder, and three year welder and at three years you’re here in school and after you leave you’re supposed to be what they call a certified welder.

	A:	Oh, wow.



	P:	So.



A:  Okay, right. That’s interesting. And then so what happened after—because the classrooms that I’ve been in have been kind of like, they look really abandoned and there’s books everywhere and all this stuff. What happened to them?

P:  Well that’s—they moved the welding schools and the E&I schools down to the VoTech, down on South 19.

A:   Okay.



	P:	And basically the Jerkins school is, you now, I don’t think it’s used much of nothing these days as far as the school. You know, and I may be wrong in that, but as far as what it’s used for now, I couldn’t say exactly for sure.

	A:	It seems like more of a community center. P:	Right.





	A:	With like the lunch way—



	P:	Well we used to go—when we was out there they had a very gym out here; big basketball gym. And it was very nice. We’d have breaks and we’d all go in there and play basketball and so it was very—

	A:	Yeah, what happened to it? Because I haven’t seen it.



	P:	I don’t know what happened to the gym. It was very nice whenever I was here. I played basketball and it still had the wood bleachers around the gym.

	A:	Wow, yeah. And then so what happened with the other vocational school they— was that like a new building and they moved everything over there?

	P:	Right. Correct.



	A:	Okay, and then why didn’t they just keep it here? If this building was already here and—

	P:	I don’t know because maybe the age. You know, this building will be here a long time, maybe upkeep possibly, you know, because the VoTech, it was new built and up-to-date, modern. So this is an older building. And that’s just my thinking.

A:  Right. And it could be that the new one had welding equipment built into the room where as this one it was kind of like, adapt this room that will teach for something else.

P:   Right.



A:   Okay, that makes sense.



	P:	Right so the welding shop is right over there now. I think they are having some programs in there now. It used to be the welding shop.





	A:	Oh, wow. Yeah, so this building, I mean, it’s got a lot of character for sure. It’s been a part of most people’s lives in the community.

	P:	It’s been a use for many different things, yeah. And it’s sad, you know, the building to me is still very useful—

	A:	Sure, yeah that’s—



	P:	And why it couldn’t be used for other things—it’s tax dollars. A:	Yeah.

	P:	Right.



	A:	Yeah, it’s like, let’s use it for what it was intended for. P:	Exactly.

	A:	But yeah so it’s all good news then, that they are starting to build it up as a community center and get people back in here and breathe some life into it.

	P:	Uh-huh. Sure, if any building that the school owns, instead of it just being set there, it should be used for something.

	A:	Uh-huh.



	P:	You know there’s so many things that can be taught in schools, and there’s a lot of space over here that could be used.

	A:	Yeah, yeah. It’s already got the floors and everything ready to go. P:	Uh-huh, exactly.

	A:	Well thank you so much for talking—is there anything else that I didn’t mention that you thought you might like to include?

	P:	I just think it’s great that they are doing this here. I understand their heritage and all and coming back and looking at something that’s days gone by. So it’s great.





	A:	Yeah.



	P:	I come out here to entertain the kids with the little ride I have and maybe have a good turnout.

	A:	Cool. Great, okay thank you so much. And can I get you to sign this little release form that says it’s okay that we put it in the archives at Florida?

	P:	Sure.



	A:	Okay. And all this stuff at the top just says that it’s okay that we put it in the archives and that we’ve got rights to use it for research and things like that. But if any point you want to write a memoir or anything you are welcome to pull it out and use it just the same. And it’s just that top line just the signature.

	P:	Okay. These are my sunglasses so I’m squinting reading this— A:	Okay, yeah. [Laughter]

	P:	I don’t have my prescription, so I was looking if I need to print my name and sign it somewhere else or just sign it—

	A:	I can do all that stuff if you just want to sign it because then I know you are busy today so I’d hate for there to be kids waiting out there. [Laughter] Oh, can you sign it right there too? Just to make sure we have them all. Cool, thank you so much. I appreciate you spending the time with me when you’ve got so much going on today.

		P:		Sure, thank you. Maybe it will get started. A:	Yeah, I think it will. I agree.

	P:	Summertime, summertime the heat’s going to keep it hot. A:	Yeah. [Laughter]





[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Liz Gray, May 3, 2013



	Audio edited by:	Anna Jimenez, June 13, 2013 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019