AAHP 390; Pinkston; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 390 Frederick Pinkston African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Hosbey on August 21, 2015 1 hour, 22 minutes | 49 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 390

Interviewee: Frederick Pinkston Interviewer: Justin Hosbey Date: August 21, 2015



	H:	I am here in Atlanta, Georgia, and today is August the 21st, 2015, and I’m here with Mr. Fred Pinkston. And if you would say, Mr. Pinkston, your name and your date of birth.

	P:	Okay. Frederick N. Pinkston, better known as “Fred.” Date of birth, July 28th, 1934.

	H:	Wow, we have the same birthday. P:	Oh, July 28th?

	H:	I’m July 28th as well! Yeah! [Laughter] P:	Oh! Happy birthday, belatedly!

	H:	Yeah, I know! Happy belated birthday! Okay. Yeah. All right, Mr. Pinkston, we’re here to day to kind of discuss just, broadly, your life, and then also your family, and your involvement in the Movement in Ocala and across the United States. And I know you were a student at Virginia Union, with your brother Frank at the same time?

	P:	Correct.



H:  Okay, so, I think that’ll be—that’ll come later, but that’s something that we kind of want to talk about. But, we usually start these interviews with this question to kind of jog your memory in terms of your family. So, who is the oldest relative that you can remember?

P:  Well, I remember my aunt, if that’s old—oldest person to—? H:  Yes, uh-huh!





	P:	Annie Pinkston, Annie Medlock Pinkston, Annie Medlock. She just died this year. She’s my father’s baby sister. She was born in 1912, and she died and was buried this year on her birthday, 2015, which of course, that made her a hundred and two when she died, but a hundred and three when she was buried. She was a hundred and three. So that’s the oldest relative that I can remember. There are many other elderly ones that I remembered in my lifetime, but she knew me all my life, of course.

	H:	Okay. Okay. And she was your father’s youngest sister. Okay. So your father— how many siblings did your father have?

	P:	There were ten of them, and there was one died right after birth, which would have been eleven, because it was born. But basically, ten. They grew up.

	H:	Okay. Okay. And on your mother’s side, how many siblings she have?



	P:	My mother, there were two boys and two girls, and also they had a brother who died early. He was a young adult when he died, so a total of five.

	H:	Okay. Okay, so big families on both sides. P:	Both sides, yes.

	H:	Right. Okay. So what part of—are they originally from Florida? P:	Yes.

	H:	On both sides?



	P:	On both sides, yes. Many generations Floridians. My mother’s side, I haven’t been able to trace them from anywhere outside of Florida. But my father’s side, his father came from Sparta, Georgia.

	H:	Okay. Okay. So your father’s relatives come from Sparta, Georgia.





	P:	Right, correct.



	H:	How’d they end up down in Florida?



	P:	Well, his dad, Moses Pinkston and a few other brothers and sisters, left Sparta as young people—maybe older teenagers—just, I guess you might say, just to get away from Sparta. That’s the best I can tell. We’re doing research on the family history now. But we do know that there is that connection with Georgia, because many of the others from Sparta moved to the Atlanta area. And that’s not why we’re here, because we’re trying to—we found a few people here who have connection to Sparta.

	H:	Okay. And they were from your family? P:	From—yes.

	H:	Okay. Okay. And so what part of Florida did your father’s people settle? P:	East Palatka, Florida.

	H:	East Palatka.



	P:	That’s near—Palatka, Florida. H:	Okay, yeah. [Laughter]

	P:	Actually, which is near St. Augustine and Jacksonville. Northeast Florida. H:	Okay. Is there a particular reason they moved to Palatka?

	P:	I don’t know that. I haven’t been able to find out whether there was somebody else there that they knew. But, I just knew that’s where they settled.

	H:	That’s where they settled. Okay. And your father, O. V. And what does “O.V.” stand for?

	P:	Oliver Van.





	H:	Oliver Van, okay. And what ranking was he in terms of siblings? Was he—? P:	He was middle.

	H:	He was a middle child. Okay.



	P:	I can’t tell you right now the number. But he was a younger half. H:	Okay. Of the ten?

	P:	Of the ten, right.



	H:	Okay. And what do you know about him, and his upbringing in Palatka?



	P:	The only—what I do know is that he was studious, and like the old folks used to say, they’d walk to school, wade through the water, ride the buggy—whatever it was—to get to school in Palatka, Florida, which is the town next to East Palatka. Right. They did well. At the high school, he left and went to attend what is now Florida Memorial College. But it started in Live Oak, Florida, and then it moved to St. Augustine, and then to Miami. But he attended there when it was in live Oak. And from there, he continued his studies through correspondence school with Crozier Theological Seminary in Chester, Pennsylvania.

	H:	Okay. Do you know what made him want to become a minister?



	P:	That I don’t, other than the fact that there’s a line of ministers in the family. His father was a minister.

	H:	Okay. That’s Moses? P:	Right. Yep.

	H:	Moses Pinkston was a minister. P:	Yep. Yes.

	H:	Is there a particular denomination that your family—?





	P:	Yeah, Baptist. They’re all— H:	All Baptist.

	P:	Baptist, yeah. In that line, yeah.



	H:	In that line. Okay. All right. And that’s one thing that I was wondering, because I know that you have a brother named “Garvey.”

	P:	Yes.



	H:	And I was—I didn’t want to make the assumption, but I was thinking that had a connection with Marcus Garvey and—?

	P:	Probably indirectly. But he was named for the husband of a young lady that my mother and father kind of took in when they came down to central Florida from Indiana. She later—the one that he was named for—married a man from Haiti named Garvey LeRonte. And, he probably was named because of Marcus Garvey. But they named him for her husband, Garvey. And he later became a United Nations official, working in Africa and other places, but that’s another story.

	H:	Okay. Okay. So there were no ties to Marcus Garvey, and UNIA, in your family? P:	No. No.

	H:	Okay. That’s one question that we had. So when you all came down to East Palatka, and your father—did you grow up in East Palatka—?

	P:	No, no, no. Not at all. Can’t stand the silver water there. No. H:	Right! [Laughter]

	P:	No, my father—I don’t know how he actually met my mother. Should have asked him that during that time. But, it probably was working in Silver Springs, because





she was born and reared in Silver Springs, Florida. And that’s—they got married in 1930, I think it was? Yeah, 1930. And that’s where our family was born and reared, right there in Silver Springs, like. Which, of course, is adjoining to Ocala.

	H:	Right. So what was it like growing up in Silver Springs?



	P:	Well, you could go so many different directions with that particular question. But I’d say we had a normal childhood. I enjoyed it. And came from a family, mother and father, you know, they pride themself on education and, we were expected that we would continue our education going to college. But it wasn’t like this kind of thing you got now. You know you got to do well. It’s just like, I guess, they were living examples that you respected. They were like the leaders in the community out at Silver Springs. And I can remember our house was always a place people came for advice. I remember that, like, we had the first radio—

	H:	In the community?



	P:	In the community, yeah. People used to come up and hear the fights of Joe Louis. It was wild on Friday Night Fights, and first television set. Things like that.

	H:	Okay. So your family home became like a central meeting ground for the community.

	P:	Correct. Yes.



	H:	Okay. Did most people attend your father’s church?



P:  Yes. There was a Methodist Church. There were two churches in the community: Baptist and Methodist. And, kind of like alternated just, it’s time for us to go to the Methodist church, they would have the Easter program. St. Mary’s Baptist





Church, our church, would have the Christmas program. Things like that. Right. But there, almost, a lot of people in the community were related to each other.

	H:	Right. Right. Okay. And I know your uncle had a drug store as well.



	P:	Yeah. Actually, he and my father started the drug store, but my uncle was a pharmacist. He graduated from Howard University back in the day, and they started a drug store in Ocala. Drug store, and then like a soda fountain, which became a hangout for the young people at that time.

	H:	Right. Did you ever hang out there? P:	Yes. Working.

	H:	Working? [Laughter] They brought you in to work?



	P:	Yeah, we worked there, the young—you know, as teenagers, we worked in the drug store.

	H:	Right. Right. And what was that experience like for you?



	P:	I enjoyed it. Your friends would come by, and you learned to work and you earned a little bit of money at the same time. I emphasize “little bit,” but that’s another story.

	H:	Another story! [Laughter] Okay. So, when you were growing up, what were the kind of ways that you guys got around? What kind of transportation was there for you guys?

	P:	Early on, we didn’t have a car—or, very early on. But my father was able to borrow—he also worked for the company at Silver Springs. I guess you know it used to be the biggest attraction in Florida before Disney World came, of course. And, but then, by the time we were in school, he was able to buy a car, and we





got around in that. I would say my early days of schooling in Silver Springs—you asked about how it was like growing up there—they had an elementary school. I started school in a one-room school in the church, the Baptist church, St. Mary’s Baptist Church. Eventually built a one-room actual school, by the county. And I finished there. The original school went from first through eighth grade. By the time I came along, my class was the first class from there that had to go into Ocala to the Howard high school—Howard Academy at that time. So I finished sixth grade there, and went into Ocala in seventh grade. At that time, we still had, the Black students there had to get a ride the best way they could to high school. So, we spent a lot of time thumbing rides. My brother Frank and I, he was one year behind me. So that first year, my older brother, Wendale and I, hitchhiked a lot to school. But I will say this, the paradox of segregation: one of the main ways that I got to school each morning—when I say “thumbing,” there was a White man coming along from what we called “Ocala Forest,” in that area, who lived there, east of Silver Springs, going into Ocala to work. And he would stop and pick us up. And take us in Ocala. And we got to school that way. And I guess, coming back, there were people who lived in Silver Springs coming back from work that we could get a ride back from there. And that lasted, for me, I guess one year at most. Might have been two years. But then they finally provided a bus for the Black children who lived out, not only in Silver Springs, but a place called “Burbank,” and Ft. McCoy, Silver Springs, and then a place we called Canaan. Actually, the name of the place was Montague, I believe. Anyway, or something like that.





	H:	We know Montague.



	P:	But anyway, then we all went on into high school. So, that was—but we had a lot of fun growing up. We always felt, you know, we were not deprived of anything. We knew about segregation. Again, it was a situation where some of the people living there, I guess Whites were from up north, and they were not as prejudiced as some people in some areas were. So, we did not have any overt problems of Klan, anything like that. That was growing up, okay? I guess everybody you knew—you know, the school was segregated, the church was segregated. But people worked at the same jobs and same place. And so, you knew, Black and White knew each other. And we, you know, grew up having our own baseball team, playing other communities, and going to high school, and taking part in the activities there. So, it was a good childhood.

	H:	Okay. And I know you mentioned the racial aspect of your childhood. And I guess, were there any specific instructions that you were given as a child, about you being a Black child, and kind of knowing how to operate and move in public?

	P:	You know, I’m going to say no. I know I hear, and I’ve heard people saying, “Well, I told them, ‘You always got to do this, you got to do it,’” but, no. It wasn’t like that when I grew up. You knew the society, you knew what was segregated and what wasn’t. But no, they never said, “You got to take off across the street if you see a White person” or something. No, nothing like that, I must admit. It’s just that—we basically was taught by example that you were as good as everybody else, and as smart as anybody else. So that’s one of the reasons why I did— when I finished high school, I applied—I did apply—to Temple University in





Philadelphia. I’d never been out of the state of Florida. But my father’s oldest brother, instead of moving to Florida, he went to Camden, New Jersey, and had a big family up there. And that’s—because, you know, Camden is across the river from Philadelphia. Temple’s in Philadelphia. So I was going up there to go to high school, and—carrying the story forward a little bit, but anyway—and the reason I chose Temple was to show that I could compete with anybody; White, Black, whoever. But would not be able to do that in Florida at the time. Also, at the time I did graduate, there was some—what the state of Florida had done, they put in a program called—I don’t remember the name of it, but—any Black student who wanted to go to college, that could not—and had a major they could not get at Florida A&M, the state school at that time—they would pay your out-of- state tuition. So I remember my father meeting with them before it became Governor Ferris Bryant, who later became governor. We met at his office, and we talked about, “What can we do about getting his tuition paid?” Because I wanted to major in journalism at the time. And they didn’t have journalism at Florida A&M at that time. But, so, that didn’t help me, because—because I had my mind set on going up north anyway to school. So I went on to Temple. So, ostensibly to go to Temple, I went on to Philadelphia and Camden. But my cousins there were, they had all come down to Virginia Union, those who had been to college already. And two others who were currently enrolled in college, they were coming back south to Virginia Union. They said, “What are you doing coming up here?

Because Virginia Union is our family school.” So, without ever applying in





advance or anything, I just got in the car with them and came to Richmond. And they accepted me. And the rest is history so far as Virginia Union is concerned.

	H:	Uh-huh. You said that they said Virginia Union was you guys’s family school. P:	Yeah.

	H:	Why was it—?



	P:	The family school? H:	Yeah.

	P:	Because their father had gone there for, I don’t know whether he finished there, but he’d gone there.

	H:	Your uncle.



	P:	My uncle. Then, their older brothers had gone there. And so it’s just attending, and it continued on even until just in recent years.

	H:	Okay. What was it about Virginia Union that—?



	P:	It was—it’s a great school, first of all. Second, at that time, it was one of the most prominent schools for training ministers. And they still have now—and matter of fact, the school, the seminary there, is one of the leading in the nation, period.

And is named for Dr. Samuel D. Proctor, the former president of Virginia Unionversity: it says “Samuel Dewitt Proctor School of Theology.” And so, some of the leading ministers in the country attended there. Adam Clayton Powell, Sr. attended there. Jeremiah Wright attended there for three years, went in the Marines, and then he graduated from Howard University, but that’s—. [Laughter] I could go on and on. The first Black admiral in the United States, Samuel Gravely, attended Virginia Union. The first Black governor, elected governor in





the United States since Reconstruction—well, he’s the first Black elected, you know—attended there; Wilder, Governor Wilder. And, because I don’t have to get into sports. They also known for outstanding basketball players, including Charles Oakley, and Ben Wallace, and—and several others, and they’ve had football players in the NFL. So it’s been a good all-around school. So.

H:  Okay. So, talking about maybe your upbringing again, what was it like being the children of a pastor, of a minister? Because it seems like lots of people say, “All eyes are always on you!” [Laughter]

	P:	Yeah. Yeah, that—I didn’t have a problem with it. We know about that, you know, the pastor’s kids. The PKs, you know. [Laughter] But, we had fun. And especially with other PKs. We, my parents bought piano early on in our house, and we had to take piano lessons, and one brother in particular, Dr. Alfred Pinkston, he became a child prodigy, you might say, playing the piano. Matter of fact, he became one of the top musicians. He went on to Florida A and M. Got his PhD in Pennsylvania, University of Miami, in music. But we all had a good time. One of the PKs was Jesse McRary, who became the first—I don’t guess he was the first Black secretary of state in Florida, but… He recently died. And we just had a good time, going to the conventions and conferences, and et cetera. So, it wasn’t any kind of, like, people picked on you, you know? Nothing like that, no.

	H:	So, what was your father like as a speaker?



	P:	He was an orator. But especially Bible Studies teacher, Bible teacher and scholar, like.





	H:	Well, because we were talking about him in comparison to Frank, and like, what were there—were there any similarities in their, the way they were—their oratorical style?

	P:	I… I don’t think it was a lot alike, no. I think it was just difference. Frank was more of the new generation, of course. My dad was—I don’t want to say he was old generation, because it was not like where it was fire and brimstone with some people. He wasn’t that. He was more reasoned, measured speaker. But they both talked a lot about current events in their sermon, and relating them to practical life.

	H:	Okay. Any things that stand out, any examples of any good sermons your father gave?

	P:	At this point in time, I can’t say specifically. I remember we did—the first time we did a family reunion in Ocala, he was at his church, and we spoke. And I remember the title of the sermon was, “The Lord’s Song in a Strange Land.” It actually talked about the children of Israel of course being in Egypt, but then relating that to our era, Blacks in America, this kind of thing. Yeah.

	H:	So he kept his messages and sermons relevant to what it was like? P:	Oh yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Both of them.

	H:	What did they—what did your parents teach you about in terms of the meaning of being Black, and—?

	P:	Again, it’s by example. H:	By example.





	P:	Yeah, because a lot of people said, “You know, I sit down, I tell my son this, I tell him that.” Well, nowadays, I think it’s different in a way that, I tell them “If you do this,” “If a policeman stop you, go and do this,” and all that. But yeah. It’s kind of like common sense and general knowledge back in those days, which some people say common sense is not common anymore. But that’s… [Laughter]

	H:	Did you guys ever go on vacation?



	P:	Not in the traditional sense, no. We’d visit relatives in Orlando. Relatives in Palatka. And I remember one time, we went to Jacksonville. My uncle had moved up there for a while, with his wife, and worked at a pharmacy there. And I remember we went up there on the train, and we were supposed to stay a week. Maybe two weeks. But I remember all of us getting homesick—I say “all of us,” three of us boys—I think we had to come back. We came home early. I remember that! [Laughter] But that was about what you might call a vacation, you know?

	H:	Okay. Did any families around you go on vacation? P:	Not really. Not like it is now.

	H:	Not in that sense. Okay, okay. I know there was the Black beach, the American Beach, and a few other beaches that—

	P:	Yeah. That would be the extent, you’d go somewhere for a day or something. H:	For a beach, okay.

	P:	Right, yeah.



	H:	Okay. Were there any sayings, or little euphemisms that your parents or grandparents used to use when you were growing up?





	P:	Now, I often tell people that they always—and people saying what their mother always said or what their father always said—but they didn’t have that. I only remember one time—well, one thing my mother would say. Because I was an avid radio-listener then. And listen to everything from the news on to the radio shows, the Westerns, and all that. And sometimes I’d kind of stop and start listening. And my mother say, “Okay, those people doing their work, you’d better get busy with yours!” [Laughter] So, so yeah. But, nah, there wasn’t any particular old sayings like some people use.

	H:	Okay. So talking about, maybe, Virginia Union and going up there, and what was it like being in Richmond, and how would you—what were the differences and similarities between Richmond and Silver Springs?

	P:	I didn’t have as much interaction with Whites at that time in Richmond as I did Silver Springs. And I had to go back to Virginia just briefly. There were people in Silver Springs that we got to know—it wasn’t like, “You’re Black and I’m White.” It’s just like—there was a man named Colonel Tooey who lived there. And he was always friendly to us, and occasionally gave us a quarter, and dimes. And we thought he was the greatest guy in the world. And then we knew, like, people ran their Ross Allen Reptile Institute, and we’d go down and sell snakes to them and lizards and stuff like that. And then, there was the orange juice stand they used to have, Carl and Blanche Heller. And they had a boy about our age named Carl. And we got to know him, you know. Matter of fact, I think we did run into each other recently one time. He had gone up there. So, there was that relationship there that, to that extent Black and White got along. You know, they





probably went to different church, I know we didn’t go see—but Richmond, I didn’t get to know Whites on that basis. But it could be because Virginia Union was a self—college itself. And they had their own campus, that was your own little world. We’d go downtown, things were very segregated there. I was surprised. But, it was like that elsewhere in the South. The barbershops—were segregated, obviously, but there were Black barbers cutting White hair. But we couldn’t go to them. The—what I did do, what a lot of the college guys would do on the weekend, we’d wait tables, like at the Thomas Jefferson Hotel, and the John Marshall, to pick up extra change. And I keep saying now, when I go back, the Thomas Jefferson is rebuilt. It’s a fabulous hotel in Richmond now. And I keep saying, one of these days I’m going to stay there. Because I couldn’t stay there before when I waited tables. But when I look at the cost for staying, I say, “That’s okay, you know, I don’t have to stay there.” [Laughter] I know I can if I want to, or if I had the money.

	H:	So the hotel was segregated back then.



	P:	Oh yeah, definitely. The personnel, the working personnel were Black, but the guests were White.

	H:	Yeah, you couldn’t stay as a guest. Okay.



	P:	Yeah. And, but that was—like I say, we didn’t encounter any racial things in Richmond, because we were among our own campus. I can remember traveling, sometimes by car, most times I went by train, but I remember we were traveling—I don’t know if we were coming from school or what—but it used to be that these gas stations you stopped to, they would have a—should have a Black





restroom or White restroom, of course. And, but occasionally, you would run into some that would not have a facility for Blacks. So I remember one night, we were traveling. We stopped. We’d always—you always asked first, “Do you have restrooms?” Well, obviously, we wouldn’t have said “Black” in those days: “Negroes” or “Colored,” whatever the term was. And there was a young White teenager. He said, “No. No no, I’m sorry, I’m sorry. I keep telling them they need to have a restroom for Colored people!” And I said—because they didn’t want to lose that money—but anyway, yeah, I thought that was so funny. And of course, we didn’t get our gas there. We moved on to the next station.

	H:	Right. Right. And that’s interesting, always, just mobility, and how you had to be conscious and aware of everything.

	P:	Yeah. Yeah.



	H:	Yeah. Have you ever heard of the “Green Book” before?



	P:	I’ve heard about it, but I didn’t hear about it when I was in— H:	When you were coming up?

	P:	Yeah. But places where Blacks could stay? Yeah, I just read about that in recent years. I don’t know why I didn’t know about it. I guess we didn’t travel that much.

	H:	Okay. We found a copy of it recently in the program. Somebody had found a copy and scanned it online. And we were looking at Florida. And Lake City was one of the most—they had, like, the most in Florida for Black people, in terms of staying and lodging and gas. Lake City was the biggest one.

	P:	Wow. That’s interesting.



	H:	That was interesting. Yeah, yeah.





	P:	Maybe it was because it was just in Florida, coming in from other places, and the people needed to stay. My father used to go to conventions all over the country. That was his vacation.

	H:	The conventions?



	P:	Yeah. National Baptist Convention. And they would stay, many times, in the early days, they had to stay with the families. So I don’t know whether they had a Green Book to look it up.

	H:	Right. [Laughter] Right. So when you were up there, and you said your brother Frank came as well—was it the next year?

	P:	The next year, yeah.



	H:	Yeah. So, what got him involved in activism?



	P:	Virginia Union itself, I guess. Because he played football. He was captain of the team. And then, I left in [19]56. He had one more year. And it was during that year they really got active. The Civil Rights thing was heating up. He decided to stay after that graduation year, and go to school in Religion. We had—my cousin, I told you, the cousins in New Jersey. One of them, Harold, Dr. Harold Pinkston—who is now a retired minister—he had spent his first three years in college in Boston. And one the young people he got to know, one of his friends there, was Martin Luther King, Jr. So, the first two years we would go back to Boston with him. It’s so funny, that first year or the second year, he introduced me to Martin Luther King.

	H:	Really?



	P:	But obviously, Martin Luther King wasn’t—





	H:	At that point he wasn’t— P:	Wasn’t famous.

	H:	Right! Right!



	P:	And so, the next year went back, and he said, “Well, Fred, I’m going over to see Martin”—to MLK, I guess, whatever he called him. “Martin,” I think he called him. I said, “Nah, I’m going to stay.” By that time he’d also introduced me to the daughter of one of his pastor friends, and she was—I was more interested in her than—

	H:	Than Martin King. [Laughter]



	P:	—than Martin Luther whoever he was. And so, he became famous from there.



And just as an aside, I tell people that I met a lot of famous people in my lifetime, that I met before they became famous. And the other one, not only Martin Luther King, but Larry King I met when he was a character in Miami, Miami Beach, on radio there. Because I was doing—this is after I was working down there. I had work the poverty program, I was their public information officer for the Broward County Poverty Program. I got my director’s schedule on the Larry King talk show. And I would tell people I was interviewed by Larry King. And when I went in, he said, “Okay, are you going to sit in on the interview and answer questions too?” And I said, “Nah, I’ll just sit. I don’t want to answer any questions.” But I said—he always asked me a question, so I was interviewed by Larry King. And then I met Thurgood Marshall. He was fairly famous then. He came down to Florida for the NAACP legal team when the Groveland rape case was going, it was some Black boys in Lake County, Florida—Groveland—who’d been accused





of raping a White girl. But he stayed in Ocala. Matter of fact, the trial was moved to our home city of Ocala. And he would, every afternoon after the trial, he would come into our drug store and have a cup of coffee and a hamburger or something. And you know, we’d just talk. So. And I felt to be a though men who later became famous, so that’s my claim to fame. But anyway, so that’s the story of Frank becoming involved, I guess. Because he had met Martin Luther King, and he had, I guess, had been called to the ministry. And that had happened after. Called to the ministry after I left. I was in the Army after I left Virginia Union. And when I came back from the Army, he was very active. Was married, and getting arrested in Richmond. [Laughter]

	H:	Okay. So, I guess meeting, and meeting with Martin. Interacting with Martin.



What was Martin like when you met him?



	P:	Just another guy. H:	Just another guy?

	P:	Because I didn’t hang around him that much, like I say. He wasn’t— H:	Yeah, he was a friend of a friend.

	P:	Friend of Harold, my cousin Harold. And he introduced him through Frank. So, Frank knew him, too. And he probably had more interaction with him than I did, because I spent, like I say, two years in the Army, and sixteen months of that was in Germany. So, I was out of the country all of 1958.

	H:	Yeah. Yeah. Okay, so when you returned, and you saw your brother was getting arrested, and—well, how did, what did you think about—?





	P:	By that time, that was 1960, [19]61. And well, it didn’t surprise me. You know, it was good by—but like I say, then also, I had come back out of the Army, down in Ft. Lauderdale working.

	H:	So, what was Frank like as a kid? Because you said it didn’t surprise you. Why you say that?

	P:	He was always active and very involved. We both had the same kind of background. But I think he probably a little more active than me, because, they got a story of him—which is true, I wasn’t there—of wrestling an alligator in Silver Springs, you know. Because they did that in Silver Springs.

	H:	Wrestle alligators?



	P:	Yeah. That was one of the attractions. But that wasn’t for us lay people. But the house say he did it. [Laughter] And stuff like that. But he played football in high school and in college. We both played baseball. We both ran the community baseball team. We both sang in the choir. I’ll say two things he was better at than me: singing and drawing. I was not an artist.

	H:	He was a good artist as well.



	P:	I sing, but not the soloist like he was.



	H:	Okay. So, just thinking about him and then getting involved and then, so what did your life end up, after you came back from the Service, then where were you?

Then where’d you go?



	P:	Okay, what happened: after I got out of college—this leading, too, to my service—I came home, started working in Williston, Florida, which is just outside of Ocala. And where you are, in Gainesville too, yeah. And yeah, in college,





Virginia Union, I had this deferment. In those days, you’d either get drafted or you’d have a deferment or whatever. And so, I forgot to request a deferment now that college is over, so I get this greetings, you know? “You are hereby commanded to go to Jacksonville for your test.” And so after six months of teaching in Williston, I wound up being in the Army in February of 1957. And doing my two years. But before I went overseas, I was stationed at Fort Jackson in South Carolina. And my first trip home, and from Basic Training, after I completed my—my second trip home—I was out of Basic and ready to take a two-week leave before I go to my training. And take a bus in to Ocala. I got a Greyhound, a late-night bus. Got to Savannah, Georgia, where—you know the rule of segregation back in the day. People think that you automatically had to go to the back of the bus when you got on, but that wasn’t the case. It’s that, you’d sit wherever you wanted to. There’s no White people, you could probably sit on the front seat if you wanted to. But if White people got on, you had to move back. So if the bus got loaded, you had to go to the back. So, I was sitting, like, halfway through this bus from Columbia, South Carolina, to Savannah. It wasn’t a lot of people on, Black or White. But we got to Savannah, and more people were getting on. And I was comfortable right there where the door—the middle door— but anyway, I was halfway through the bus. And so, the driver gets up and comes to tell me I have to get up and go to the back because people are getting on. And I says, “I’m not getting up.” And we had this discussion. At that moment, I could have been two things: I could have been the Martin Luther King of this soldier going home, and just refuse—because he said, “Well, if you don’t get up, I’m





calling a policeman.” And so I just said, “Okay.” I went on, and got to the back and went home. Because this, like, after midnight, and who knows where I’d have been today if I hadn’t gotten up. If it had been anybody else along with me, you know, who could have reported what happened to me, but—. So I always laugh and joke, I say, “That was my chance to stand up for Civil Rights, but I passed.”

	H:	[Laughter] Passed!



	P:	Because I wanted to go home. H:	[Laughter] It was late, it was late.

	P:	Yeah. So, then I went on and did my term overseas and came back. And, when I got back, by law, they had to give me my job back in Williston. But also, by common sense, friends down in South Florida saying, “Hey, Broward County and Dade County are paying more money than anywhere in the state of Florida, and we have a job for you down there.” So, it was in March, after I got back. So I went down there in 1959 and stayed there until 2001.

	H:	So you were in Broward County until 2001.



P:  Broward County, Ft. Lauderdale, and then the work in the Broward County system. A few different schools, including Attucks High School, which was segregated at the time.

H:   Okay. Named for Crispus Attucks?



	P:	Yeah, named for Crispus Attucks. And there were three Black schools in the county: Attucks in the south, Dillard High School in the central Ft. Lauderdale, and Blanche Ely school in the north, named for Mrs. Ely. Professor Ely was my





principal down Attucks. They were well-known educators in South Florida. And, well, I just stayed down there as a teacher, coach, guidance counselor, whatever. And that’s where I was when Frank was still in Richmond. And he came home after leading Civil Rights demonstrations for the Richmond—they called it “Richmond 34.” But it was more students than that involved. But those 34 were the ones to get arrested. And he became a teacher at Howard, his home high school, Howard Academy, and coached there for a year or two. All this—now it look like it was long time, when he was gone, but it was really a very brief time.

Then he became principal of a private school there called Matthew Scipio.



	H:	Matthew Scipio. Okay. Was that a—and that was an all-Black school?



	P:	All-Black school, yeah. And then, by that time, he got involved with the Marion County NAACP. And that’s when they started having the protest meetings, rallies, at my father’s church, Covenant. He made that available to them. And, organized the Youth Division. That’s how Charles Washington, Dorsey Miller, David Rackard, and all them, my brother Garvey. They were all involved, and started demonstrating and picketing, et cetera. And, there was not that much going on with agitation for Civil Rights in South Florida, because it was a more— quote—“Liberal” area, and although it had been segregation there. But some things had just been desegregated on their own. And, we would come up to Ocala on the weekends a lot of times to go to the meetings. And one of the things that—without prolonging it, because I know I can tell you more about how they were going out picketing and what would happen—there were two things happened. It was a coverage from the newspaper standpoint that used to, they





had a paper, the Ocala Star-Banner, and that was the local paper. But they also had the outside papers covering it, like the Orlando Sentinel and the St.

Petersburg Times. The night-and-day difference in the coverage.



	H:	Really?



	P:	Yeah. The Orlando Sentinel, at that time, reported from a very biased standpoint.



I was sitting right there when, I think the guy’ name was Paul Ferguson, was a reporter for the Orlando. He was at the meeting. And his headline was— something he said Frank said in the meeting about “Don’t buy from these merchants,” or, was not factually stated what he said. But it was inflammatory to the point like it was provoking. You know, they were boycotting, but what he said wasn’t exactly that. And I’m saying, “That’s not what he said, exactly.” But the St. Petersburg Times pretty much had it correctly reported, what they were saying.

	H:	Right, right. They had a political agenda at Orlando, but St. Pete was more measured?

	P:	Right, exactly. More of a real newspaper at that time. We did come up one time when—matter of fact, we met Ralph David Abernathy. And that way we got to know him fairly well, because he spoke for us—my fraternity—in Ft. Lauderdale, first time that I got to know him. And then—

	H:	You mean you were a member of Kappa Alpha Psi? P:	Yeah. Right. He’s the Kappa man.

	H:	For the record.



	P:	Yeah, right? So, we had to—we came up, and since we knew who he was, and



said that we’d recognize him—this is the weekend, or one of the weekends we





came into Ocala—if we’d go to Jacksonville and pick him up to the airport. And we did, and we brought him back. And there was—I think we took him—I don’t know if it’s the same time, I get them mixed up now. But I remember one of the times we went to Ocala, and we got this notice after the meeting, one of the rallies that they advised us not to go out home in Silver Springs, because the Klan had threatened. By this time, too, it’s not like the peaceful serenity and the serene Silver Springs/Ocala of the old days, you know.

	H:	Of your childhood.



	P:	Yeah, of the childhood. People have awakened and stirred things up, and like I say, a lot of times they say that “outside agitators” come in when referring to Blacks, which is not true. You may have some outside people, but on the other hand, there were outside agitators on the White coming in too. Because I guess they figured their Whites were too docile to do anything. [Laughter] So, but anyway, I remember we stayed—they spread us out through the city of Ocala. Fed the family members who were there rather than going back out there to Silver Springs. We stayed with Dr. Hampton, Jr., and his family, out in West Ocala. And they were saying—I think, matter of fact, I think we had to park our cars so they couldn’t be seen. Because they were recognizing them. Like, down a corn field, something, I don’t know. But, that passed. But, they can also tell you—the other people you interview—about this Hunting and Fishing Club that protected my brother and the family during that time.





	H:	And that’s a question that—I wanted to ask you about that as well. About just how that came about, and then, what was it like for your family to be in the middle of it?

	P:	I can surmise. I can’t, you know—I’m sure it started with not just some of the deacons of my father’s church, the men in his church, but with the community people in Ocala who said, “Well, we’re going to protect you.” And they would come out at night, spend the entire night there in shifts, you know? They took turns as to who would be there. Because my oldest brother, Wendell, was part of it, too.

	H:	Mmhm. Oh, Wendell was part of— P:	Yeah, yeah.

	H:	Okay.



	P:	And Ann probably can tell you more about that, because she was living there at the time. But it was always confident and reassuring to know that we could come home and sleep, and there’s somebody watching, nobody’s just going to come up there and attack. So, and I know, I guess it finally disbanded, after the Civil Rights Act or whatever. But they were with it for a long time.

	H:	Why do you think your father—he opened up his church, you know, for the mass demonstrations. Why did he make his church available?

	P:	Well, that would have been his character throughout the years. Like I said, that we always were—not preached that we were better, but we were as good as anybody else. And that they all had been active in Civil Rights, and they always read a lot. And always had newspapers—the Pittsburgh Courier, the whatever





the Florida paper out of Tampa, and Baltimore African-American. Books. Well- read. Kept up with things. And so he, that was just his nature. He wasn’t going to be one of those persons who was afraid to do something to advance the cause. So…

	H:	So, I know you mentioned some of the newspapers that your family would read.



Did you all read any of the Black newspapers?



	P:	Those were Black papers. Yeah, the Pittsburgh Courier, the Chicago Defender, the Baltimore Afro-American, the Florida Sentinel came out of Tampa. Yeah.

	H:	Is that how you guys kind of really got your news about what’s going on, and Black people?

	P:	Across the—yeah, exactly. Yep. And from, you know, from A to Z. Culture, and everything. But I know there were a lot of people who were not doing that with their children and et cetera. And, but that, I think it paid off. So it was just a natural progression for him. And it was, you know, being a trained minister in the area. A lot of ministers in that time were not trained.

	H:	And so, your brother Frank, I guess when he was involved—people we’ve interviewed always talk about him as an orator. He was always very, very impassioned, and they really felt so motivated by every time he spoke. The young people would really get excited and enthusiastic about it. What was he like, just him as a speaker?

	P:	Well, when I left Virginia Union, as I said before, he was not a minister. He was always, could speak, but he hadn’t done a lot of speaking or anything. So, when I came back, he was a minister. He was leading rallies. And then I heard him





speak and preach, and I said, “This can’t be Frank!” [Laughter] You know? Because that was the first time I heard him speak like that. But he was good. I was really surprised and happy that he was doing so well. And, he got called to churches to pastor, et cetera. But he was a good speaker. Eloquent.

	H:	Did he have kind of the fire-and-brimstone style, or what was his style? P:	Not really the more—the Martin Luther King approach.

	H:	Oh, King approach. Okay. P:	Yeah. Yeah.

	H:	Okay. All right. Because I know he was very important to the youth in terms of the movement that went on in Ocala, and being a leader of that. Do you know, what were his feelings on being responsible for Black people and the youth in Ocala?

	P:	To be honest, I can’t really say. I think he felt what he was doing was natural. He was supposed to be doing that. And, I know it kind of made us—my wife and I, in south Florida. This was before the children, before we had children. We went seven years before we had children. But my wife, Frida, we felt like “We need to be doing something in South Florida.” The only kind of big movement that went on—and it wasn’t very big—was to integrate the beach in Ft Lauderdale. And there were, Dr. Mizell and Ms. Johnson were the two leaders. But it just didn’t catch on. They had, maybe at most, maybe twenty-some people. I was going to say maybe twelve or so, but maybe twenty-some people would go out and, you know, try to integrate the beach. It wasn’t a big deal, it probably didn’t make the news anywhere except in Broward County. We didn’t even take part in it. But





what we did say, “Let’s do some things in our own way that will integrate.” Don’t have to make any noise about anything. So we went to the, we chose the movies. We would go to theaters that were not segregated [sic] and—safe places like drive-in theater. But still, they were segregated, drive-in. And, but whatever we did, there was no, “No, you can’t do this. No, you can’t do that.” First, and one of the funny things we laugh about now was kind of foolish when we think about it: we finally decide to go down to the beach. Not the beach, but the pier, the dock. And integrate one of the deep-sea fishing boats. [Laughter] So, we went out. Yeah, we didn’t really think about it. And nobody said anything. It Captain Bill’s. And had a good time. Nobody was funny or did anything. Came back, and we said, “Well, let’s go again.” And so we were at the same boat, the guy says, “Oh, why don’t y’all try him over, there’s that boat over there.” [Laughter] That was so funny. But in later years, we said, “Now, that was kind of stupid!” If we went on the wrong boat, they could have thrown us over!

	H:	Yeah, you’d get thrown overboard! [Laughter]



	P:	And nobody—yeah. “Oh, they fell over!” But, nah, that was… But we did integrate a city, and a lot of people find that hard to believe. I don’t know if you know Broward County, but Plantation, Florida.

	H:	Yeah, Plantation, Florida. Yeah.



	P:	Okay. We were the first Black family to move into Plantation, Florida. H:	Really? Really!

	P:	And it’s documented. Yeah, some friends of ours, two or three other couples, on Sunday afternoons before housing integration, whatever, just for the—well, not





just for the fun of it, but just to see what’s going on—we’d go around to these communities, and go to the model homes and look at them. And sign in: of course, nobody ever wrote us a letter saying, “Come back and—”

	H:	Right! [Laughter]



	P:	And one Sunday, we went to a place called Coconut Creek. That was just starting: the community, Jack Brown community, Coconut Creek. And the lady just finally told us, “Well, we don’t sell to Black people.” And we said, “Well, okay.” Well, the irony of that is, in 1971-72, they opened a new school there, Coconut Creek High School, and I worked there for twenty-seven years. And so, I had community grow from a little place, little community right in front of the school that said no, to now it’s one of the bigger communities in—bigger cities in Broward County. And I just often think about that. I was there before the school was built, asked some people about buying a home there, and they said, “No.” But we went to Plantation. I—some other friends there, we did the same thing; we went there, and this guy showed us the home and all that. It must have been late [19]60s where they were telling us; at least two years later, we went back.

The same guy was there, and he called us by name: “Mr. and Ms. Pinkston?” We were saying, “Boy, he really remembered that sookie!”

	H:	Right, right!



	P:	And, we told him, “We’re ready to buy.” And we talked a long time. And we asked—you can ask this question, now, but they can’t answer it, real estate people. We asked were there any other Black families living there, and he said, “No. We understand there’s a Catholic priest here who adopted a Black child,





and he’s living with them.” But he say, “You’ll be the first family.” So we signed, and as we signed, the only thing he said was, “Are you sure this is what you want to do?” And we said, “Yes.” He says, “Okay.” And we built and moved into Plantation. And we really, basically, we didn’t have any problems like some people have had. And I think one day, my wife said that—Frida said that a lady, the welcome lady came to the door and said, “May I see the lady of the house?” [Laughter] And I think she said, “This is the lady of the house.”

	H:	Right! Right! Yeah.



	P:	And, but I think a couple of the neighborhood children that—by that time, we had the two daughters, and they were elementary age or not even, the younger one probably hadn’t even started school yet. But I think one of the girls told them— and had been playing with them—and they were, I think one of the girls said— little girl, White girl—told my daughter that, “Oh, my mommy said I can’t have you all come over and swim with me.” Or something like that. I don’t know whether they used a racial term or not. But that kind of surprised her, really wondered why. But that family finally—not “finally”; they moved soon after we were there.

Maybe a year or two years. But, we talked to the family, and—matter of fact, we decided, we moved in, we would go and meet the neighbors. And we met them to start with the person. And they were cordial, but wasn’t anything like “Come over.” They said, “Oh!” And I’ll call them “The Higgins over there, you should go and talk with them! They can give you a lot of information.” Another White family. And the Higgins were nice people. I guess they figured, “Well, they don’t mind





talking to Black people, so…” [Laughter] “So y’all go talk to them!” Yeah. Because they’d had a meeting before we moved in to Plantation.

H:   The neighborhood association, uh-huh.



P:  The neighborhood, and discussed it. And the feeling I got was, most people said, “So what?” Because most of the people in South Florida were from up north, you know. Connecticut and Massachusetts. So…

H:  They were transplants. P:  Right, yeah.

H:  Right. Right. So, I know you mentioned that, during the Movement, with Frank, you said the people had awakened and stirred. So, what was Ocala like during that Movement period?

P:  It was… Oh, you mean during the Movement period. H:  Yeah. Yeah.

	P:	Well, you know, when we would go up there, we would be going to the rising protests, so we saw a lot of people highly involved. I can’t really say too much about how the day-to-day was, since I wasn’t there day-to-day. I do know that there were good people there. Fortunately, it wasn’t like Selma or some of those places where the absolutely violent hate filled people there. You always had people saying, “Well, it’s going to take time, but this coming” and this kind of stuff, you know? But, my father was well-respected even before then by the White structure, power structure there, because he got to know them. And he eventually became part of the power structure, so to speak, there, because he was on various committees like the juvenile committee for the county and things





like that. The one thing I don’t want to forget to say is, another irony of the Movement was all the arrests and things like that by the Ocala Police Department. One day, became good friends with the manager of a radio station there who later became mayor of Ocala. They were friends. He—on the day we had his funeral—by that time, things ended, segregated, because this is in the 2000s. Segregation has ended, you got integration. The people called him, he’s on committees and all this. No more police arresting Black people and putting them in jail—Whites too, because there were White kids demonstrating along with them. So, when he died, the family and friends met at the family home in Silver Springs. The police chief of Ocala provided an escort all the way from our house in Silver Springs to Covenant Baptist Church in Ocala, which is six, seven miles. And at every road, along every stop, there was a police light—every intersection, car there, with a policeman standing with the hands over the heart as the cars passed, funeral procession passed by. And I said, “What a change in just a short period of time,” so to speak, whereby they’re not arresting, but they’re giving final respects and providing an escort. And that set out how things can change.

	H:	Particularly in Marion County and Ocala. P:	Yeah. Yeah. Yep.

	H:	Yeah. Did you know about the work that Frank did in St. Augustine?



	P:	That was probably one of the most challenging periods of time, from what I understand. Because St. Augustine was probably the toughest Civil Rights area in Florida.





	H:	And why do you think that was?



	P:	I don’t know, it just more people were filled with hate there. I know a lot of nasty people come in. I know Andrew Young often talks about it, and he said that he mentioned the same thing. Because—I don’t know if Dr. King ever got there or not, but it was really vicious. Which I would have thought Leesburg, Lake County, Sumter County, would have been worse, because they were—early on, they were really hate-filled counties.

	H:	Yeah. Yeah. So, St. Augustine, what was Frank’s involvement in St. Augustine?



	P:	He would go with the demonstrations, he would speak over there. I think that right. Yeah. But I never went over, because that would be like—a lot of the things took place during the week, too, nights instead of weekends, you know.

	H:	Okay. Do you know about anything with C.K. Steele in Tallahassee?



	P:	Uh, only [inaudible], but you wouldn’t even remember it. [Laughter] But you know, names like Dr. Steele and a lot of others—Reverend Steele—you know, you would read about them in the paper and their involvements, yeah. They all knew each other, the people with the NAACP throughout the state that he was involved with down in Tampa. Some of the names escape me right now. But Dr. Steele was a very well-known person, in the Movement.

	H:	Okay. So do you know about the Orion Johnson? P:	In Ocala?

	H:	Yeah.



	P:	Killed the sheriff? H:	Yeah, he—





P:  That was my classmate. H:  He was your classmate? P:  Yeah, Orion Johnson.

H:   Okay. Okay. Can you tell me about what happened there?



	P:	Well, I tell you as I know the story. This happened, we were all in the high school choir, chorus, and every year we put on a musical called the Spring Fiesta. And this year—it was our senior year. Might’ve been our junior, I don’t know. The Spring Fiesta, we had a scene in there where we did “Smoke Gets in Your Eyes.” That was the song. And all the guys had their white dinner jackets. And I understand—this is how it came out; I don’t know because I never talked to Orion after he got arrested—that he had gone to the store and to give them a, where he bought the jacket, a bad check or something like that. And the sheriff of the county went out to arrest him for the bad [check]—because he lived out in the country, so to speak—to pick him up. And that point, he said, he resisted arrest and stabbed the sheriff with an ice pick. And of course, they arrested him, and sentenced him to die in the electric chair, which they fought for years. And by that time, I was gone in Service or wherever, I don’t know remember. I think they finally did electrocute him, but not—he would’ve been one of the youngest people. Yeah, so that had to be when we were in tenth, eleventh grade, because I think he was sixteen years old. So that would’ve been tenth grade. And—but you know, all kind of rumors people started. The sheriff was White, of course. But somebody said that Orion was a fall guy, that the sheriff was going with some other guy’s wife, and this guy stabbed the sheriff and blamed Orion. But we’ll





never know. The only thing I can say about it: I never would have thought he would have done something like that.

	H:	Mmhm. It was out of character.



	P:	Yeah. Right. But you know, I’m not a conspiracy theorist or anything. I just, you know, let the facts speak for themselves. In those days, I don’t know what the facts were. Why—how’d you hear about that?

	H:	Well, you know, we’ve been doing our own research, and my colleague, actually, Ryan, he asked me to ask you that question about Orion Johnson.

	P:	Okay. That’s interesting. Because he was my classmate. I knew him very well, obviously. Yeah. Sitting in course together. And it happened over something we were going to be performing in. I’ll ask you a question: did you all do anything about Rosewood? Are you familiar with Rosewood?

	H:	Yes, definitely.



	P:	Which is, to me, is interesting, because to be honest with you, I didn’t learn about Rosewood growing up.

	H:	You didn’t?



	P:	No. I only heard about it when the movie came out, whatever, and they started talking about it. And the reason I said that, I did hear about other communities, like Brooksville, Florida, where the same kind of thing happened, except earlier, I guess, because that’s where my mother’s father came from. Eddie Parteaux. My great-grandfather, Thomas Jones. They were part of that group that they ran out of Brooksville, and burned the houses and all that, and that’s how he wound up in Silver Springs. But I always thought that was interesting that I knew about





Brooksville, but never heard about Rosewood. And that’s really even closer, because it’s near Gainesville, and over there in Levy County.

	H:	Uh-huh, by Cedar Key. P:	Cedar Key, yeah. Mmhm.

	H:	No, I think, that’s something—you know, we’ve interviewed people about that, because some of those people who survived went to Gainesville, and there was really in lots of ways a code of silence for people who survived that, where they were afraid to talk about it.

	P:	Okay. Yeah. That’s probably what had happened then. At least, we didn’t know about it. What got me, when the movie come out, everybody’s acting like, “Oh! You didn’t know about that? Everybody knew about that! Nobody didn’t!” And the people that I know in Ocala area, I asked them about it; they didn’t know about it, either. Brooksville, we knew about it, because we had family members involved.

	H:	And do you remember what the story was, what happened in Brooksville?



P:  I don’t know what was behind it. My sister Ann might know. I just know that they had to get out of there.

H:  Yeah. That’s interesting. What, growing up, and knowing about those incidences of violence that happened, did that change how you saw things?

P:  Not really. No. Because actually, like you say, during that time, we’re taking the paper—not only Black papers, but… We often read about the lynchings, okay? That was in the paper, every week there was about somebody being lynched or whatever, a mob did this. But it didn’t happen around us in Ocala, to be honest. At that period of time, there were problems in Northwest Florida, West—the





panhandle, Lake and Sumter Counties. There was a sign up that, people say in Oxford, Florida, which is in Sumter County on 301, that said—and I’ll use the word they used, that actually was up: “Nigger, read and run. If you can’t read, run anyway.” I never saw that sign. I did see a similar sign in Palm Beach County near the lake, Lake Okeechobee, near Porgy, Belle Glade, some of these other places, in the later years—when I say later years, [19]60s, probably—that said, “No niggers, Mexicans, or Jews welcome” at this little restaurant. But you know, I didn’t see a lot of signs and things like that around that were prevalent, I guess.

We always thought, growing up in Ocala, “Wow, I wouldn’t want to live in Georgia, Mississippi, South Carolina, Alabama! No, goodness!” [Laughter]

	H:	Right. Right. That’s interesting. Because we’re working now with the, a organization called Equal Justice Initiative. And you know that Marion County had the highest number of lynchings per capita of any county in the United States. And I think that that’s interesting, that as a child, not really being aware—

	P:	They had that, yeah. H:	That that was a, yeah.

	P:	I don’t know, I don’t know how it ended or whatever, but I never knew of any lynching in Marion County when I was growing up there.

	H:	When you were growing up, yeah.



P:  Not even hear talk of one. I heard about some Black lady slapped the manager of supermarket in Ocala and nothing happened, you know! [Laughter] And he didn’t bother her anymore.

H:   [Laughter] Right. He learned a lesson.





	P:	What study is that in, could I find—because I want to see when it occurred, mainly, whether it was happening when—

	H:	Because if you Google the Equal Justice Initiative, they put out a report. And the report will tell you every lynching that occurred, where it occurred in Marion County. Because they kind of see—they really see Marion County as, like, the heart of lynching in America.

	P:	Oh. That’s interesting. Very interesting.



	H:	Yeah. Because they’re working now to get a memorial placed down there, to commemorate the people who were lynched in Marion County, yeah.

	P:	Hm. That’s interesting.



	H:	Yeah. You know Juanita Cunningham? We interviewed her about maybe a month ago, as well. And she was telling me, you know, she said, “Marion County is very interesting.” And she kept saying that word “interesting.” Yeah.

	P:	Yeah, I guess that would be. It is very interesting to know that kind of background. Thought maybe that’s what—it’s just Marion County history in that school.

	H:	Yeah. [Laughter] Okay. So I guess, kind of wrapping up, then, how did your family—how did you end up back in Atlanta, after retiring down in Broward County?

	P:	Oh, that’s easy. Our oldest daughter, Renee, in high school, she only applied to one school—this is making the story long, but—and that was Howard University. And she went to Howard, and then the first week there I guess it was, she met this guy from Atlanta named Darrell Arnold. And they courted, of course, and





through the years, and when they graduated, they got married, long story short, and made their home, decided to make their home here. And they had two boys: Corey Arnold, who just graduated from Howard University this year, and has got a job, did extremely well in journalism and communications, working for NBA.com, his dream job here in Atlanta; and then had another son, Micah. He just left today going down to Full Sail University in Orlando, Florida. He’s a video filmmaker. Already he’s done a lot of videos. He’s won awards here in Fulton County, was selected as one of two students to work with the Fulton County Board of Instruction Video-making. And then, the youngest daughter, Maria, met cat—well, she moved up here. She was working in Broward County, too. She ran a program called “Take Stock in Children” there for county. But she decided to move up here. And while she decided to move up here, that was the housing boom was going on in Florida, and prices, you know—

	H:	Skyrocketed.



	P:	And we were saying, “Wow. We moved out here”—and by that time, we moved to Davey, which was the lynching capital of South Florida. Way back in the day, you understand, the Klan used to be there. But anyways, so we said, people started selling houses, and two time, three times, four times what they paid for them. So, we were looking to really, not to buy a house up here, we were looking to move into a high-rise condo in Ft. Lauderdale. And our daughter told us about prices up here, about things up here not costing as much as they did. So we could buy a house and get three times as much room as we’d pay for a high-rise down in Ft. Lauderdale. And so, our oldest grandson said, “Next time, you think





Atlanta.” So we thought Atlanta, we moved on up, bought a house, and moved up here, to be with the family. That’s all it boils down to. People were shocked that we would leave South Florida, because we were part of the fabric of the community—I must say, bragging. [Laughter] We were the, we started the Broward County Urban League down there.

	H:	Ah, really? Okay.



	P:	Yeah. And, things like that. We were very involved in community and church. But people couldn’t believe still that we moved. But family’s so important to us, you know. We’re a very close-knit family. And, so now Maria has two children that are young ones. Miyoshi, the oldest of her two, just started kindergarten last week.

And the next one’s started—well, he’s in preschool now. Pre-K. Three years old. And their father’s in—they lived in Abu Dhabi off and on. They lived there for a year. But he’s still over there. In the UAE, United Arab Emirates. When our family was in Ft. Lauderdale, we were selected under Nancy Reagan’s initiative of Outstanding Family in Incorporation with Urban League Roots, selected as family of 1988 I believe it was. And that’s about it.

	H:	That’s about it. So.



	P:	I didn’t talk about my coaching, but that isn’t—



	H:	No, I’m saying—then tell me about—tell me about—



	P:	No, one of the things I did was to be involved with coaching in high school. We were very successful. Track and cross country. And, I had enjoyed that through the years very much, and all the outstanding talent. And my wife has been involved with computer training with teachers. She wound up being a—working





for the school boards, or training program, training teachers how to use software. And then we retired from that, and that’s when we moved up here.

	H:	And what high school? Were you at Cross Key High School?



	P:	No, actually, I worked at Attucks High School mainly, started with, seven years— which, you know, fond memories. And then I worked at Coconut Creek High School.

	H:	Coconut Creek, okay.



	P:	Yeah, and that was for twenty-seven years.



	H:	Yeah. So were you a teacher as well, were you teaching?



P:  I taught first, and I was a guidance counselor. I was coaching when I was other one when I became an assistant principal, I couldn’t coach. You know. I worked with track, you know, track and field, came out official, you know. All those good things.

H:   Okay, okay. Did you coach anybody who made it on the pro tour?



	P:	Well, yeah. In track and field, I had two people make the Olympics. They both were from Bahamas, but they, you know, Bahamas at that time—well, even now, kids come over—but back in those days, used to come over to the States a lot and finish high school. I had to do my first pro athletes, I didn’t coach football, I worked with football program. But Cyril Pinder was one of my athletes that was on the track team, and he was so good, just an outstanding individual and all- around athlete. All-American kind of boy. Student council guy, and the band, all that. So I finally talked him into playing football his junior year. He came out and did so well as running back, went to University of Illinois, and he—well, that’s





another story. But he wound up playing with the Philadelphia Eagles, Dallas Cowboys, Chicago Bears. But he was—the Miami Herald in 1964 lobbied hard to get him to be the first Black athlete at the University of Miami. I worked with him there, since I was the statistician and his advisor. And Neil Amder, who was the sports editor of the Miami Herald at that time, I mean he carried on like a daily lobbying to try to get him. Neil just recently retired as the sports editor of the New York Times, and I’ve spoken with him recently. But anyway, we did everything we could to get in there. And everything was—well, we don’t have any film of him, showing him in action. You know, because back in those days, Black schools couldn’t film every game or whatever. And, Bryan Piccolo, probably remember that name, played with the Bears. He went to Wake Forest; he’s from Ft.

Lauderdale, Hollywood. He’d gone to a Catholic school there, but—the kids know each other, even though the schools were segregated back then. So Bryan, I remember him coming by, trying to talk Cyril into going to Wake Forest. But he wound up signing with Illinois. And it was University of Miami’s loss, and it was just too bad that they didn’t, because he was an outstanding—still is an outstanding young man. Doing very well in business in Chicago now.

	H:	Uh-huh. See? And that could have been in South Florida. P:	Exactly.

	H:	Well, was there anything else that you would like to share? As we wrap up, is there anything that you feel, want to—?

	P:	No, but I’ll just compliment you all for doing what you’re doing with the oral project. I just wish this could have been done with many other people—in other





areas, too—because I think about family reunions: a lot of people, the old timers, I can remember, they didn’t talk a lot about the family. And I must give my mother credit; she did. But when you’re a young kid, yeah, you know, you just pass that off, it goes on. And I’m wishing now I could’ve written some of those things down, or had a tape recorder, recorded what she was saying. It wouldn’t make our job now so difficult in trying to trace family. Because a lot of records are not there.

And just—so I think an oral project is really good.



	H:	Yeah. That’s really the key for African American history, especially because so many of us, we don’t have those written records.

	P:	Yeah.



	H:	So that’s why you got to ask. Ask the elders.



	P:	Yeah. And that’s why I’m going to ask you, how did you get involved with the project?

	H:	With the African American History Project?



	P:	With the, yeah, with anthropology, and African American history, period. H:	Yeah. Yeah. No, I did my master’s research in a place called Nicodemus,

Kansas. You ever heard of Nicodemus before?



	P:	[Laughter] No, I haven’t!



	H:	It’s little Kansas—it’s about four hours away from Denver. Western Kansas, middle of nowhere Kansas. It’s an all-Black town. It was founded after slavery in 1867—I’m sorry, 1877. But from Kentucky. They rode the railroad from Lexington, Kentucky out to its terminus, which was Hayes, Kansas. And then they walked from Hayes, Kansas to Nicodemus, Kansas, which was about a





hundred miles away. And they were homesteaders. So I did my research there because they’ve had an ongoing community there for the past one hundred and twenty or so years. So that’s, that was my first project with African American history in graduate school. And then, I love doing that work of oral history, and learning about the past. I did a project in Plains, Georgia, because my family’s from Plains, Georgia. And Jimmy Carter, some of them actually worked for Jimmy Carter’s family. So we had to do a project with Jimmy Carter’s family. So I think, I just been doing so many oral history projects with African American people, when the opportunity came up at the University of Florida, I said, “Okay! I would love to!” Because my school research is actually in New Orleans. So this is kind of like a side project to my dissertation stuff.

	P:	Ah, okay. But how’d you hear about Nicodemus?



	H:	Yeah. I remember I had been online, and I had been looking up just kind of, you know, Black towns, because I’d just read an article talked about ghost towns out West, and so many ghost towns were actually Black towns that failed. And I found Nicodemus, and I saw, “Oh, there’s one still there!” Like, “Yeah! The oldest Black settlement still going!” And I always wanted to go. And then I got the chance: when I got to graduate school, there was a grant, and I was able to fly out there and stay out there for the summer.

	P:	Well, you didn’t fly to Nicodemus, but— [Laughter]



	H:	No, I had to fly to Kansas City, and then drive from Kansas City on over. [Laughter]





	P:	Wow. That is really interesting. So were you like that in—I’m interviewing you, now! [Laughter] But Mays High School, how’d you—?

	H:	Yeah, I think—Mays High School, that’s why I say, if I ever have a family in Atlanta, I definitely want to raise them right here where I grew up, in southwest Atlanta. Because I just loved going to Mays High School, and that’s where I had the teachers who really encouraged me, and they always stressed to us the importance of African American history, and knowing who you are, and not feeling like you’re less than. So I had those lessons like you did growing up. So that’s why when I went to college, it was like, full steam ahead! [Laughter]

	P:	Well, my son-in-law, the one from Atlanta, he went to Mays High School.



Graduated 1986. And he has the same kind of attitude about Mays as you have. I’ve wondered now whether this same attitude amongst students exists there.

	H:	Yeah. It’s changed. It’s changed.



	P:	Yeah, from what I’ve read, unfortunately.



	H:	It’s changed a lot, because, I guess the neighborhood dynamics have changed.



So when those change, the school changes. But I still feel like it’s something good up there that can really be something good.

	P:	Yeah. That’s why I hate to hear when things like that happen. Things happen like, sometime you hear “Frederick Douglass High School” in the news. I’m saying, “Why? That’s a shame to hear that,” because, first of all, those schools have good names—I mean, named for good people. But also, the quality of students there in the past have been—

	H:	Right! Right!





	P:	Yesterday, they had this story with Tri-Cities High School. I don’t know if you made a Tri-Cities.

	H:	Yeah, I know Tri-Cities, yeah.



	P:	I read that it had maybe a reputation, like. But its ninth grade kids that got in a fight with a—something, it was definitely the kids’ fault, not the teacher’s. Kid shouldn’t have been in the class, and he go and bowl his way and just pushed the teacher down and start beating on him. That’s…

	H:	Wow. Yeah, there’s just so much going on. That’s what they always tell us. Have you been to Mays High? Have you seen the school before?

	P:	No, I have not.



	H:	It’s on the U up that huge hill. So when I was in high school, they would always tell us, “Mays is going down the hill! It’s going down the hill!” [Laughter]

	P:	[Laughter] Yeah, but I know Darrell was—because he still follows them, the football and band, and—

	H:	Yeah, me too. Yeah. P:	Yeah.

	H:	Yeah. Yeah.



	P:	Well, that’s—well, I do thank you for your time.



	H:	No, thank you for your time! I’m glad I was able to catch up with you and, yeah.



	P:	[Laughter] Yeah, it’s been difficult, but we got it done, and I learned a little something myself about Nicodemus.

	H:	Right! Right, right. [End of interview]











	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, August 31, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Aliya Miranda, April 20, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 26, 2019