AAHP 720; Vogt; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 720 Brady Vogt 6-27-2019



Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on June 27, 2019 22 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Race riots; Fort Meyers, Florida; Racism]



AAHP 720

Interviewee: Brady Vogt Interviewer: Julian Valdivia Date: June 27, 2019



	VA:	This is Julian Valdivia with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. The date is June the 27th, 2019 and today I am interviewing- you can say your name.

	VO:	Brady Vogt.



	VA:	Okay and how do we spell that for the transcriber? VO:	B-R-A-D-Y.

	VA:	Okay.



	VO:	V-O-G-T.



	VA:	Okay and I’m interviewing you because you had told that you had worked for the news press and had covered or knew about some of the race riots that happened.

	VO:	Yeah well I came here in 1964 as I was fifteen and we went to my sister and brother and I all went to Bishop Verot High School which at the time was the only private school in town, as I recall. And then I went to Edison Junior College for a couple years and then I went to Florida State and I got my baccalaureate in government and some concentration on English. So when I came back to town, in would’ve been May of 1971, my first job was with the Fort Myers news press as what they call a crime reporter or a beat reporter. And that was you know that was a long time ago. You were paid two dollars an hour so it was eighty dollars a week and the schedule was you would go to work theoretically at noon and work till eight o clock at night. And then that was- after that you’re copy or whatever article you had written for the day would’ve been reviewed by the editor, corrected by you, you left at 8:30, nine o clock at night and then they had to use





an expression called “putting the paper to bed” which was where the editor would have approved the city editor at the time was a fellow by the name of Joe Workmen so he would- he was actually the editor, the city editor was a fellow by the name of Henry Baker. So then the copy would go to the press room where the type setter would set it up and usually they- I would say they started printing it midnight or one o clock in the morning. Paper would come off the press at three or four and then people would come and get it and wrap it and roll it and get it ready to be delivered. So the crime reporter was a wide range of things, not that there was a great deal of crime but you’d have to go to the police station and the sheriff’s department and you’d see what had happened that night before or what had happened during the day and begin to assemble the bones of a story. So I wanted to go back to the Bishop Verot thing for a minute, it was the only private school in town. When you’re in private school you’re like the bigger schools foil they’re happy- in athletics, particularly, they’re hap- other bigger schools are happy to have contests with you because we were small you know we didn’t have a budget to speak of. My friends and I helped clear the field of Palmetto and Pine behind the school at the time so we could have an area to practice. So I always loved basketball so I played a lot of basketball but one time we were invited to go to Dunbar High School which was the- this would have been in 1965 maybe [19]64 but I think [19]65 well the desegregation order had already been in place but you know it wasn’t accomplished with the stroke of a pen so there was still strict segregation in town and the Black children went to Dunbar and the White children went to Fort Myers High School or North Fort Myers, those were





the only two high schools in town. What they used to do, and they did it with Cypress Lake and a couple other places, is they began as junior high’s and then with each advancing grade the school worked itself towards being a four year institution. So when Cypress Lake started out they had 8th and 9th grade, the following year they had 8th, 9th, and 10th up until the time they were seniors. The first senior class from Cypress Lake I think would’ve been 1968. So anyway we were playing basketball and we’re invited to go to an afternoon game at Dunbar High School which might as well have been you know in another town. I mean we were aware of other parts of town but it was smaller town of course. So we were invited to so the basketball team went and the cheerleaders went but none of the student body went and when we got to the gym, we’re a little bit overwhelmed, I mean they have a gym, we didn’t even have a gymnasium at the time. We practiced in the parking lot outside the school and the Black kids did a remarkable thing where but split their audience in half and so half of the student body cheered for Bishop Verot and the other half cheered for their own team which I thought- and that was spontaneous you know that wasn’t organized or anything like that and so the Black kids would go c’mon Bishop, Bishop, Bishop c’mon Bishop. I mean they were as unaware of us as we were of them so I think that was a nice thing to remember. So in 1971 in the I would say probably July now all this can be confirmed from the archival resources at the news press, there was a bit of a disturbance in town. Where there- it was probably called a riot I don’t know what caused it, I don’t remember that, but I do know that there was two or three days and nights of pretty intense confrontations. I don’t think





there was gun play but there was the usual you know bottle throwing and brick throwing and stuff like that and again Fort Myers was so strictly segregated where the overpass is to go to cross on 41 over the river. Everything east of that along Anderson Avenue which was the name of the street okay and that was named for a prominent Black physician who had done a great deal of good work in Fort Myers and so the main drag going through the colored neighborhood, now I’m going to use the word colored because that was what we used it and I don’t mean it as a pejorative term.

	VA:	We understand.



	VO:	Yeah, so everything east on Anderson Avenue was part of the Dunbar community was also called the hill which was a abbreviation for safety hill which I kind of remember me and- if you were a Black person once you got to the hill you were safe you know because nobody is gonna follow you up there to mess with you. But it was kind of interesting because both Anderson Avenue and Pal Beach Boulevard were parallel streets and so it was in between those streets or major roads that you had to really kind of the first interplay between a White community and a Black community. Now you go out Pal Beach Boulevard and I think it’s mostly Hispanic while Martin Luther King remains mostly Black. But again you have this physical mesh there where the two communities collide and also the thing about Palm Beach Boulevard that’s interesting Julian is that it still has the river. So you’d have very very nice houses along the river and then a lesser community as you moved away from the river. So the riots or the disturbances were met with a lot of police presence. It was- took place within the city limits but





the sheriff’s department got involved big time. The sheriff at the time was a guy by the name of Snag Thompson. The chief of police at the time I think was a fella by the name of Burrow Underhill and so they coordinated their efforts. There was picture taken of the sheriff’s department in full riot regalia let me guess and say at the time there might have been thirty or forty employees probably all men where they had their picture taken on the steps of the sheriff’s building. You know with- hold on a minute let me just see if-

	VA:	Alright you want-



	VO:	Very interesting about what you just said, you’d rather be warm than cold, how much temperature has to do with behavior. So like I said this disturbance took place let’s say June maybe July 1971. Well nobody had air conditioning okay, I mean the White people did, that could afford it. When we came here my dad was a retired army officer and he had saved all his life and my grandparents came with us so we- they built a new house in a place called the villas and it had air conditioning. But I remember walking down the street to meet a new friend and going into his house and it wasn’t air conditioned and I was just stunned that I couldn’t figure out how they could sleep or function or anything like that, it was so hot. So I think that has a lot to do with disturbances you really seldom hear of a riot in a snow storm you know what I mean so I think temperature has something to do with it. Well the- so the law enforcement agencies responded in force to whatever was going on. One little vignette that I think was- is kind of shows the pathos of all that stuff was there was a group of Black adults let’s say there was five or six of them that had driven to Fort Myers from let’s say Clewiston or





Arcadia or something to attend church the following day and they were death- mutes. And so they didn’t have any clue what was going on, there was a curfew, they weren’t supposed to- nobody was supposed to be out on the streets and they drove through town and found themselves surrounded by policemen with guns drawn and stuff like that. So you can imagine the how fearful they were and they responded accordingly. So the police, as I recall, didn’t exactly laugh about it I mean somebody might have thought it was funny but others I think took it pretty seriously. The- one thing I’ll mention about Morgan House who was- he was not chief of police then but he was a captain and that’s how I always knew him, as Captain House. He and my father had been in the Korean War together and that’s why we came to Fort Myers because they were friends and my dad wanted to fish. But Morgan House grew up on Pine Island, he came from an extremely a bigoted family I mean they made no bones about it. The first time I met Mrs. House she said something to the effect that she wouldn’t go to a restaurant that served Black people because she wasn’t gonna eat off of a plate that a Black person had eaten off of. But he did more to integrate the police department than anybody had previously done you know so he either grew away from his prejudices or but something in the man was dynamic whether he recognized the future or recognized the past or something. But he was an admirable man so he hired you know he’s probably the first guy to hire a negroe police officer in Fort Myers which would have been a big step at the time. So the riots went on, it did attract national attention whether there was a- I don’t recall that there was other disturbances like that that summer so I think the spotlight





was on here and then they I think it made national news and then there was a big to do about it. I think it ended sort of just fizzled out you know what I mean so that was the end of that. I would mention another thing that I think was kind of poignant and I don’t know if you rather- people have spoken to it but the Lee Memorial Hospital was a segregated hospital. My aunt, mother’s sister was a catholic nun, she was sis of charity, her name was sister Bernice Buckly. She and her friend’s sister, Evelyn Lebuist, came here in 1971 or [19]72 and they set up the nurse-midwife program for this part of the state because still at that point Black people weren’t eli- either eligible for insurance or they couldn’t afford insurance premiums and they sure couldn’t afford to pay an obstetrician to deliver their baby so as recently as the [19]70s there was a lot of babies being delivered by midwives. Well my mother’s first job when we- my mother was a registered nurse and her first job when we came to Fort Myers, she worked at Lee Memorial and I remember her telling me that they had no Black patients.

That there was a clinic or a barracks or a quonset hut or something out there on Anderson Avenue where if a person was sick enough to be taken from their home, that’s where they were looked after. But if there was an operation, let’s say an appendix or any kind of life saving operation what they would do at Lee Memorial is they would bring the man or woman in at night, do the surgery that night and the next morning discharge them so they weren’t there for an extended period of time.

	VA:	Wow. I knew that they moved them between hospitals but I didn’t know that specifically operated on them at night that way that patients didn’t see.





	VO:	Yeah, that was the way that it was related to me was that they were never admitted you know to the hospital officially. They were brought in operated on- I don’t know what they do with it- they didn’t have ten hour operations back then you know and they didn’t do transplants and do complicated things they do now. It would be for maybe appendix or a tracheotomy or something like that. So those are my recollections, I will tell you that in 1970 too there was another disturbance at Fort Myers High School. The reason I know that is my father, the retired army officer was a well-liked algebra and geometry teacher and I would- my second job out of college was teaching at Bishop Verot. I was teaching English, didn’t do a very good job of it. But anyway I got word that there was something going on at Fort Myers High School, so I left Bishop Verot, went over there. My dad said it was nothing, it was just maybe similar to what you spoke about the other night about the posters being down or something there was some anger somewhere you know it’s hard to remember that stuff and also it kind of loses its significance when you think about how silly it was to be angry and hateful like that. But I will tell you that in 1964 Lyndon Johnson signed the civil right acts. You know he

was- you know southern democrats in the [19]60s were what republicans are today and Lyndon Johnson because he signed the civil rights acts and he was from Texas, he lost all his friends and that’s when the democrats became republicans because of- over the civil rights act. But anyway that’s when the schools began to be integrated and I mentioned a fella by the name of Lovey Wells and I knew Lovey a little bit and he was a great basketball player and he was the first Black young man to play sports at Fort Myers High School. That





would’ve been [19]66 maybe something like that and interestingly he was a good player you know the question it’s not that he was- it wasn’t like what do they call it now- what’s the thing where you have to have a certain percentage of minorities to qualify for-

	VA:	Affirmative action?



	VO:	Yes, exactly. It had to do with affirmative action which had to do with women also you know but he was a good player so he wasn’t accepted on the team because of the color of his skin it was because he was good talent and the coach at the time was Elmer Tremont and he recognized talent and went out on a limb you know to give the guy a chance and they had a great team. Bishop Verot was interesting it was- it was integrated from the first day the school opened, when I was there we had- in my class we had two young women that were Black women. My sister was a year behind me and she had two or three. I was on the first football team, I wasn’t much of a football player but we didn’t have much to choose from and we had a tenth grader on the team by the name of Jerry Rogers who was left handed and he was accepted. We had a guy named Randolph that was a funny guy he was in my sister’s class and he would do Bill Cosby imitations and I mean everybody loved him. He had such a great great personality, you know he was just a lovable guy. And then a good basketball player by the name of Mansfield Simmons. You know these are all old men now but we never we never gave them a hard time I mean it just wasn’t- they were never ever did I hear a racial epithet at that school from anybody and not just to their face but behind the back you know just I don’t know if that’s coincidence. I





don’t know if it’s got anything to do with Catholicism. I just want to think it was you know the good manners and good intentions of the kids that were there you know when I was young my father explained to me quickly that he was an officer if there was a Black man that was an officer that’s what counted not the color of his skin or anything like that. It was you know you respect him because he’s an army officer. So that’s kind of the way we grew up. You know hatefulness still exists, we’re never gonna get quite rid of it until people are educated or something but you know always when you go back to those times, it’s generally people that are angry at themselves that look for a target for their anger.

Somebody that somehow is to blame for their own shortcomings that sort of thing. So anyway I’m sermonizing here I don’t mean to do that. Do you have any specific questions Julian to ask me?

	VA:	Yes, yes I have a lot now. I actually want to ask where- you said you and you’re family moved here from- in 1964 and that your father had knew Morgan House.

	VO:	Yes.



	VA:	Where did you all move from?



	VO:	Well he was in the army so in the army you move every three years so I was born in El Paso, Texas. We moved to Oklahoma, we moved to Boston, then we lived in Germany three years, then South Carolina, then his last duty station was a little town in Ohio that actually had nuclear missiles. This was during the Cuban missile crisis and then we came here. So we came here from a little town in Ohio called Wilmington. But he had met Captain House and all- even when Morgan





became chief of police my brother and I always called him Captain House because when we came that’s what my dad said to call him.

	VA:	Okay, I want to know before that cause thee 1960s- did you move here before the civil rights acts had been passed or after?

	VO:	Well we moved here in the summer of [19]64 as soon as school was out so I don’t know what the dates- date is on the civil right act but it-

	VA:	It was July of [19]64 so yeah pretty much. VO:	We would’ve just been here yeah.

	VA:	Had you been in an integrated school before you went to Bishop Verot?



	VO:	Yes, Ohio you know you go all the way back to the Civil War you know the people that were running from slavery are running from their lives, cross the Ohio River they were safe from Kentucky. And that’s where Uncle Tom’s Cabin- the setting for that come from so they- same thing never in my recollection of being a junior high kid never heard anybody call a bad name. It was- they were friends now I don’t remember this little farm town let’s say there was five or six thousand who lived there back then. I don’t really remember a part of town that was dedicated to the colored families but I’m pretty sure it existed you know you’d have these pockets or communities that were sacred to the people that lived there so did I have people living next door to me that were colored people? No, but did I sit next to a colored kid at school? Yes. And did I think of them as anything other than a kid, no I don’t think so.

	VA:	I understand. Okay and then I was also curious too how did your father go on to become a teacher at Fort Myers High School?





	VO:	Well he was- he retired from the army he was forty-two. See my father was in World War II and he was in Korea and that’s where met Captain House but he had interrupted his college to go to Europe to be in the war and he was at the Battle of the Bulge and he was at a place called Remagen bridge and then he transported refugees for a couple years after the war and sent every paycheck home to my mother who saved it. So when he came back and joined my mother who was finishing nursing school, we were off to a good school. But he had not finished his college so while he was in the army in Germany and finishing up there, he went to night school and got his degree. His college degree and you know math and science, it’s the same thing right now. If you’re a sociology teacher, or history teacher, or English teacher, you’re gonna have a hard time finding a job. If you’re math or science, you got it. So my father’s a very practical fella and he came down here, I don’t really know if he- the principal at the time at Fort Myers High School was a guy by the name of Thompson and my dad went in there one day and said “I’m retired” you know you didn’t apply online or anything like that. He probably didn’t even have a resume. He just probably stopped by the school and- but it was the only school I mean Bishop Verot was being taught at that time by sisters you know Catholic nuns. Algebra and geometry were 10th and 11th grade level math classes so he stopped by and said “I’m a retired army officer, I got my degree, I can teach algebra and math” and the guy said you’re hired. So he did that for ten years.

	VA:	And that was at Fort Myers High School? VO:	Yes.





	VA:	Okay. I want to know then too because I know you said you moved around, you were born in Texas, you lived in Oklahoma. I don’t how segregated Oklahoma was but was moving here a culture shock for you or any of your family members? Compared to where you had been living before in Ohio?

	VO:	Well I don’t think it was a culture as much as it was geography. You know the beach, my dad liked fishing, we had a boat. I tell you what’s funny about those days though is that every kid, every boy who drove to school, at Fort Myers High School, who had a pickup truck had a 22 rifle sitting in the back. In the window on a rack. I mean you could just go truck by truck by truck either had fishing rods or shotguns or 22’s. I mean hunting and fishing were the big things. So that was different. The Beach Boys were singing about being at the beach and then all of the sudden I was there at the beach that was you know that was interesting. In athletics what was interesting for me and then a couple of friends of mine is we came from places where athletics were big time and very competitive and all of the- if I had gone to For Myers High School I would have made the team but I would have just been another face. Another guy on the team but when I went to Bishop Verot there’s- half the guys on the team, basketball team, couldn’t shoot a basket if they you know if their lives depended on it. So all of the sudden I was getting to play as much sports as I wanted and that was good. I worked at- in 1965 or so they- that was when the Edison mall was built okay and it was interesting concept. It had two anchor stores, it was one of the first malls built in the United States that had a Sear’s and a Penney’s and then what was called a Moss Brothers in the middle and Moss Brothers was like Dillard’s or Macy’s or





whatever. And I got a job there when they were shutting down- at that point downtown Fort Myers, there was a Sear’s and a Penney’s but they were catalog stores. I mean they literally had no merchandise, you would go in, they would have a catalog, you’d pick out the washing machine you wanted, they’d order it for you, have it delivered but if you wanted to buy a shirt and a pair of pants you had to go to Collier Westbrook or Cindy Davis or Chuck’s or something like that. They were all small stores so then all of the sudden you got these big department stores where they hired about sixty kids to be stock boys. To fill the stores fill the shelves and they end up keeping six out of the sixty and I was one of the six that they kept and I worked there for five years. All through high school, all through junior college and often times wished I’d stayed [inaudible at00:34:08] I would have had it made. But we had a Black man that was in charge of the stock boys. So we had sixty, it was his choice who got to stay and who got bumped and it would’ve been a choice based on merit you know who was the kid that was gonna work not dare to just mess around and his name was Ben Kitchen and I always admired him you know he was the only Black man in that store. There was no Black sales people, there was no Black managers, and then they did deliveries and then young man that he hired that Mr. Kitchen hired to drive the delivery truck was a Black kid which was great because that was a lot of responsibility you know you don’t just give anybody the keys to a big delivery truck. And that would’ve showed a little bit how things were changed because prior to that you know somebody in-I mean we didn’t have the communities like the forest or fiddlesticks or anything like you didn’t have stuff like that then you





had no gated communities or golf. The only golf course was the Fort Myers Country Club. Hello! So that showed something that he could drive up to a neighborhood off of the river and-

	VA:	Do you want me to pause it? VO:	Yeah.

	VA:	Okay so I wanted to ask you about Bishop Verot again and I was just curious cause you said that the- I’m trying to get into like what things were like at the time and like I believe you when you say like whatchamacallit- students were cordial with each other and that there were no problems at least at Bishop Verot and things like that but I was curious why if there weren’t really issues between the races at Bishop Verot why were there no people that went to the Bishop Verot v. Dunbar game? Was it because the team wasn’t that popular or was there still kinda like what you were saying before where it’s just like a completely different area that a lot of people aren’t familiar with?

	VO:	Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. They were afraid. Yeah that would’ve been a big- that would’ve been a cultural immersion you know I don’t know how many kids had excuse me I don’t know many kids had cars or whether their folks picked them up. It was a day- it was an afternoon, it wasn’t night but I would think that everybody was afraid you know included probably the boys on the team. You know because we’d never been I mean I’d- like I told you in Ohio and stuff like that I had kids that were friends and saw but I’d never been surrounded by Black people you know what I mean. Which is interesting if you think about it, Black child surrounded by White people, how they must feel.





	VA:	Being the minority.



	VO:	Yeah, I mean being an absolute minority. So that was it I just think it was like “are you going out there?” “no I’m not going you know I’m not- I don’t know my way around there.” Strictly segregated town you didn’t go into that part of town on a lark. So that would be my answer to that it would just be sort of an interesting sort of fear.

	VA:	I was just curious and I also wanted to know too cause you seem to have been involved in like the sports scene, did other schools play Dunbar? Like who played Dunbar in their sports or in the-

	VO:	You know that is a really great question and the answer would be other colored schools.

	VA:	Oh okay.



	VO:	Sarasota, there was nothing in Naples, Tampa. VA:	Long drives.

	VO:	Yeah.



	VA:	Yeah.



	VO:	Yeah, did Dunbar play Fort Myers High School? I don’t think so, I really don’t think so. Why? I don’t really know the answer to that, it would’ve been so convenient and what a natural sort of rivalry but I think people were afraid. The Black kids were probably afraid to go to the Fort Myers gym and vice versa. So the answer would be they played other- either other private schools or other segregated schools of the Black persuasion.





	VA:	Okay, and then the last thing that I was curious about was when you were talking about with Morgan House and the integration at FMPD. I do know that there had been sporadically Black police officers that were on the force. Like I think there was like one Black police officer in like the 1920s and then like it wasn’t until the forties where they had another officer and then I know Coop Farrell who was one of the early Black police officers there joined the force after he came back from the Korean War. So I think Morgan House was the first one to hire a Black police officer but do you know what he did to further integration efforts besides maybe making a friendlier environment for Black police officers?

	VO:	That would be the-the answer is the environment. I knew there was a young Black police officer that Captain House hired that he liked very much and the poor guy died of cancer, young.

	VA:	Oh wow.



	VO:	You know like in his maybe he made it to thirty or something like that and Morgan was upset. You know really upset that he liked this guy a lot you know saw a great promise in him, saw potential, saw him as a sterling example of what could be and then he turned around and got bit by cancer. So I remember that and the other thing is is that his wife was really, adamantly racist.

	VA:	Morgan House’s wife? VO:	Yes.

	VA:	Oh okay.



	VO:	Yes, yes. She’s the one I told you about the restaurant. VA:	Oh I thought that was his mother for some reason.





	VO:	No, that was Mrs. House and I like Mrs. House and I wasn’t gonna I wasn’t gonna correct her. My mother was a little shocked cause you know when you’re a nurse or a doctor human anatomy is- you’re much more matter of fact about it. You know what I mean, a body is a body, a wound is a wound and so I think there was that with my mother and I remember she was the one that told me Mrs. House said that and she was she was like what? So anyway what I’m getting at with Morgan is he would’ve had to overcome the resistance of his wife to do what he wanted to do at his job. To do the right thing because I mean if it would’ve been her she would’ve said n this and n that you know and don’t do that. So I think what it was was not that he went out and hired a preponderance of Black young men to be police officers but I think he created an environment where they weren’t outsiders. A friend of mine told me- it wasn’t my dad told me, somebody else told me that Morgan who was a boxing champion, Golden Glove champion, fought, son of a fishing family on Pine Island. Now that means barefoot okay that abject poverty and he was in the police department before he went to Korea and joined the National Guard. That’s how he wound up there but as a seventeen or eighteen or nineteen year old got pulled over for a traffic violation, had been drinking and apparently beat up three policemen okay. Physically beat up three guys. The next day the chief of police went to him and said we want you to join the police department because he was that tough. He was pliable, young enough, giving him a shot out of being a mullet fisherman and all the- he was persuaded to do that. Changed his life.

	VA:	What a story.





VO:  Yeah, yeah. He beat up three cops and the next day the chief went to him and said I got a proposition for you, join the police department. Stop being- playing the fool.

	VA:	Well that’s nice to hear. Alright, so that’s pretty much the last of my questions so we can wrap this up.

	VO:	I was gonna tell you this last little sad thing there Julian that my sister had a girlfriend and the girlfriend’s father owned a drive in theater. Which is where the old K-mart used to be on 41 which is now some kind of construction supply building but that was K-mart, before that that was a drive-in in the [19]60s and when the order to desegregate came out he announced, the fella that owned the drive-in, who I thought was a decent guy, you could tell he was a little weathered, he smoked a lot and his- he had that leathery look in his face to where he might have been a drinker. But anyway he made the mistake of announcing that if any- he didn’t call them Black people. He said if any of those people came to his drive in looking to get in because they were allowed to because the segregation he was gonna shoot them. Well as a consequence, that families life was ruined, the theater closed down shortly after the poor little girl was ridiculed and just in tears. You know she loved her father of course but just was devastated by what he had gone on to say so it just- my point being here is that number one you gotta be careful what you say and number two there’s consequences larger than you could ever have imagined.

	VA:	When they were shut down were they chastised by the community? I imagine they were chastised pretty heavily by the community.





	VO:	Yes, yes. I mean you would have some rabble rousers that would say good for you I’ll join you and stuff like that but those people are mostly bullshitters. Are the people that- have the loudest- empty barrels make the most noise sort of thing.

But by a large- I think most people were horrified that he would say that not so much that he didn’t have the right- well he didn’t have the right- well he did have the right you know.

	VA:	But like that’s like a really extreme view.



	VO:	Yeah I mean desegregation was referred to government referred to education access to anything that the government had with them. Nothing to do with private enterprise you know so you can hardly say I got an order to desegregate so I’m going to let anybody that wants to come into my drive in. That just that wasn’t what the law was intended to be but he took it poorly and as a result it was a very a sad situation and I mean it closed within weeks.

	VA:	Oh wow.



	VO:	Yeah.



	VA:	That seems to be the case for a lot of- well I say a lot- I shouldn’t say a lot. I don’t have the sources to say a lot but mostly the case similar with other places that had like refused well that had challenged desegregation. Didn’t the snack house close not too long after?

	VO:	No, snack house stayed open for a long time.



	VA:	Oh okay. I must just be wrong in my memory then.





	VO:	No the snack house stayed up well into the [19]70s and the order to desegregated was [19]64 now I don’t- when you spoke the other night did you mention the snack house?

	VA:	No, no.



	VO:	I don’t remember, that’s one of those things that was- you know you- they used to have signs on the door that says we refuse the right to or reserve the right to refuse anybody that was pretty- I mean back when long hair, that meant hippies you know or people that were barefoot or hobos or Black people. I mean who knows what it meant but you have to understand that desegregation now it’s all changed you got this incident with the baker that wouldn’t make the cake for the gay couple so that’s how far the interpretation of the law about equality has gone. Because my understanding of the government back then it couldn’t legislate private enterprise. It could say a schools got to be desegregated, a hospital that gets government funding has got to desegregated, the army has got be desegregated, a university that gets public funds, anything that’s got to do with government support you have to have- there’s no such thing as separate but equal. It’s got to be equal but back then to tell somebody that you got to serve or let somebody in that you don’t want to, I don’t think it flew I mean legally, he was within his rights to refuse to allow somebody in there because he didn’t want them but not with holding a pistol.

	VA:	Yeah, yeah obviously.



	VO:	That’s what clobbered the family but yeah that drive in closed within weeks.





	VA:	Wow you know it’s interesting what you said with the snack house and them having a sign because I’ve looked through the city laws and one of the ordinances, it was called the unwelcomed customer law, it actually- one of the I don’t know the correct legal term, but one of the rules within the law was that people were allowed to have signs up saying that they could refuse service to anyone based on any reason.

	VO:	Yup.



	VA:	So that’s just an interesting old link that I found. VO:	Yeah.

	VA:	But yeah, that’s the actual end.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amanda Lorenzo, October 10, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 15, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 9, 2021