AAHP 041; Mickle; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 041 Stephan Mickle African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on February 7, 2009 23 minutes | 12 pages



Abstract: Stephan Mickle is a judge and serves on the Alumni Association Board of Directors. In 1962, he was one of the first Black students to matriculate at the University of Florida’s undergraduate program, and became the first Black undergraduate student to graduate from UF. He would later attend UF law school as the sole Black student enrolled, and would become vice-president of the senior class. When he graduated, he found that no White firms would hire Black lawyers, and had to work a government job instead. He discusses the loneliness on campus he felt as the only Black student— nobody would speak a word to him—and gives advice for students today. He also talks about incentives for funding higher education for underrepresented students.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Celebrate the Firsts; Integration]



Standards

	SS.912.A.7.8 Analyze significant Supreme Court decisions relating to integration, busing, affirmative action, the rights of the accused, and reproductive rights.

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 041

Interviewee: Stephan Mickle Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: February 7, 2009



	W:	This might not have the same resonance as for someone coming back for the first time, but if you wouldn’t still mind sharing some of your reflections, we’d really appreciate that.

	M:	Sure. Well, as you know from the program and other information, I was one of the first seven Black students to enroll in the undergraduate program here at the University of Florida in 1962. Bear in mind the turmoil that was in America during that time: you had James Meredith trying to get into the University of Mississippi. You had Wallace standing in the schoolhouse door at the University of Alabama; they had to call out federal troops to get Wallace out the door. It was police with the water hoses, hosing down blacks who were marching; and the dogs, police dogs. You know, so, it was a turbulent time for Southern schools, Southern universities. When I decided to enroll, I’m thinking, “Is this going to be another Mississippi- or Alabama-type situation?” So, there was anxiety there. But I was determined that I was going to go through with it. I enrolled and got my undergraduate degree in 1965. Just as an aside, talk about reflections, I went on to get a master’s degree after I got my bachelor. And I went out and taught high school for a year. And then came back to law school. And so, three years undergrad, one grad, and grad of law school; I’ve never been in a class with another Black student in it. It’s a different world. But, after the initial year or two, things seemed to get better. Students were more friendly. By the time I got to law school, it was a very friendly environment. I joined study groups with other White law students, because I was the only Black at the school. We formed study





groups, and we studied at various apartments at night. When it was all over, I was elected Vice-President of the senior class at the law school. And I graduated in 1970. When I first got out of the University of Florida, the only thing I wanted to do was get as far away from this institution as I could get, because I had no real pleasant memories. If you stop and think about it, students in that day—and I think today, in historically black colleges for example—when they graduate, they have classmates. “Oh yeah, old John was from this city,” or “he was in my fraternity,” or whatever, you know. “We hung out together.” I had none of that. My college slate is just wiped clean, because there was nobody but me. I will tell you this, though: I think it—I know it made me a stronger person. I mean, when I got out of this college, in this University of Florida, and the law school, I just didn’t think there was anything I could not accomplish if I put my mind to it. There was no hostility by the students when I started in 1962. There was a couple of incidents where people would say a little something, smart talk. But nothing confrontational. Mainly, we were just ignored. We were left alone, nobody spoke to you. You know, I can remember walking up to a Black janitor—to talk to somebody—and he was scared to talk to me. Said he may lose his job! And so, it was a very lonesome existence. I can remember my first year or two walking around the campus, and I probably said three words all day. And those three words were “present” when my name was called in class. That was it. I spent a lot of time on the bench sitting in Plaza of the Americas reading. Of course, when I go sit on the bench, everybody leave the bench but me. I’m left there on the bench. I think one of the things that perhaps made it a little easier for me is that





Gainesville was my home. So I stayed at home with my parents. And so I could leave this all-White environment and go back over to the Black community, be home with Momma and Daddy—you know, Momma cooking home-cooked meals, and I’m just sort of telling them about my experiences. Of course, they couldn’t really comprehend it, because they hadn’t been through it. They both went to Bethune-Cookman College, that’s where they met and all. And so, you know, they really couldn’t appreciate what I was going through, or what I was trying to express to them what I was going through. But nevertheless, there was a listening ear. Some of the students who lived on campus, and who lived in houses around town—well, only two of us graduated: me and Johncyna Williams. The other five dropped out. Quit. One had a nervous breakdown. So, that was the student life, if you will, back then. There was no student life.

	W:	Contrasting what you see on campus now with that experience, what has been the value of diversity and integration at the University of Florida?

	M:	Well, I think it’s twofold, at least. One, it certainly has opened up opportunities for Black students to matriculate at Florida’s flagship university. Best in the state, as far as I’m concerned. And I think secondly, it has exposed White students to other Black students, to realize that there are varying cultures in this country. So, I think it benefits both. I see students now—well, not just students—but I was telling a fellow earlier tonight, as I was riding around Gainesville during the election, I saw more Obama and Biden stickers on White folks’ cars than Black folks’ cars, old and young. And I’m going, “Boy, this is a long way from where I come from!” [Laughter] And then, I went to the Inauguration in Washington, and





took my children, because I wanted them to see it. I bet you there was sixty percent Whites in that crowd. They were cheering, crying, people were hugging, embracing. It was just—it was something I never thought I would live to see in my lifetime. Ever. Having grown up in the [19]50’s and [19]60’s in Florida? Uh-unh! I was telling a fellow before the elections, “It’ll never happen. Just won’t happen!” And, so when it did happen, I was full of emotion about it. And that’s when I said to my children, “We’re going to Washington.” They said, “Well, all them people going be there!” “I don’t care how many people going be there. Your daddy going be there, and I want you there. Because you don’t know what Black folk been through in this country.” So, we got back from Washington. Next night, my daughter called me at home—she lives in Orlando—and said, “I still don’t understand why you were so emotional.” I say, “I don’t expect you to understand.” She said, “What was all the hoopla about?” And I’m thinking, this is—I say, “You were there, you saw it, you’ll be able tell your grandchildren about it. You saw history in the making in this country. There’ll never be another first,” is what I tried to explain to her. “Well, you know, he was the most qualified”. I say, “Everybody knew that, but everybody didn’t vote for him. Most people knew he was more qualified.” I mean, can you just imagine Sarah Palin as Vice-President of these United States? And McCain get ill? I mean, I’d probably have to leave the country! That to me is just—but anyway, back to UF. UF history. As I walk around this campus now, and drive around, I’m just elated at the progress that’s been made in the last—I graduated in [19]62, so almost forty-five years or so.

Like I say, when I first graduated, the only thing I wanted to do was get away





from a bad experience. And as I matured and got older, and realized the value of the education I got—because there is no question in my mind that my degrees from the University of Florida aided me in my career path climb. That’s the first question—when they, “Where’d you go to school?” “University of Florida Law School.” “Oh! You probably all right!” You know, it was that kind of response to it. So I called upon fellow classmates from law school when I was seeking judicial appointments, and they wrote letters, they made calls on my behalf. So there’s no question that the friendships I established, at least in law school, have aided me and benefited me throughout my career. Of course November, I will have been a judge for thirty years. I’ve seen judicial system change. I see young Black lawyers coming out of law school now going to work for big firms. When I graduated law school, there was no White firm hiring Black lawyers. It just didn’t happen! You could go to work for legal services, legal aid, or public defenders’ office, or a government job, but that was it. Now these youngsters coming out, the sky’s the limit. You know? If they got the grades, and determination, the sky is the limit.

W:  What advice would you give a University of Florida freshman who comes in here in the summer, or came this semester, as far as what they could look forward to having made the choice to come here? What would your advice to them be?

	M:	Well, first of all, remember why you’re here! You’re here to get a good education. And so whatever hours you need to put in and study, you do that. Second, I’d say to them, get involved in as many campus organizations and activities that you can. And continue to make your grades, of course. But don’t just study and go





home. This university has a lot to offer in terms of service clubs, in terms of whatever it is that your thing is. Get involved in it, and do something other than academics, so that it makes you a more well-rounded person. Whether it’s student government, or whatever it is, get involved with it. And don’t be afraid to try it. I mean, that would be my basic advice to them. Get fully involved. Get to know your classmates—Black, White, brown, whatever. Try to get a well-rounded college experience. And not just—as I came through, it was all academics and go home. They had no Black fraternities, sororities. There was no affirmative action. It’s about gone by now. When I came through, it was book it or get out of here!

That was—that was it. So, that would be advice I would give them. I think it’s a valuable resource. I don’t want to sound like President Machen, but tuition is relatively low compared to a lot of places. This is your institution, this is your state school: go there, and get all you can get. And then, spread your wings and fly at that point. That’s the lesson I preached to my children when they were growing up. None of them came to the University of Florida—except my oldest daughter came back and went to law school here. Graduated from law school here. But I told them, “Listen, I don’t have any diamond mines or oil wells to leave you. I’ll help you get the best education you can get, and then you going have to fly. You got to spread your wings and fly. I am not Wachovia Bank. Get out there and earn a living, support your family.” So, that would be my take on it. And like I said, when I first got out, I just wanted to get away. But as time went on, I realized, “Hey, this is the only alma mater I got!” [Laughter] I may as well get involved in it, and try to aid and help bring in Black students, the first year





program and everything. I may as well do that. And that’s how I ended up serving on the Alumni Association Board of Directors for about fifteen years. And, done a whole lot of other things with the university. But, when I look around now and see the Cicerones, and a number of Black students in that and all these other—I’m going, you know, “I never thought I would’ve seen the day, but here it is.” That would be my basic take on it.

	W:	And looking toward the next fifty years: we’re celebrating integration of fifty years today. The next fifty years, what’s the next step that needs to be taken? We have a night like tonight, where there’s a recognition for the struggle and the challenge and the differences of the past. And an opportunity to look forward and do something different. But, what’s the next concrete step that needs to be taken—if you were President Machen?

	M:	I think if I were—and again, I’ve never been an educational administrator, but I would probably make what may be an unpopular decision, and set aside a ton of money for scholarships for underprivileged kids that can make the grade and get in. I’d set aside extra money for the summer program to get them up to speed.

And really make an effort to support and bolster the organizations that work with these students. Like I said, whether it’s the fraternities, or the service clubs, Black Student Union, or the whatever.

	W:	Let me play devil’s advocate for a second. Because I come from a family of educators, and I think I understand why you believe that’s important. But, what about those people that say, “Why is it important to make a special program for an underprivileged kid? Why not just take the kids that have the grades?” What is





the value of bringing different communities and cultures to the University of Florida that way, people that might not otherwise come here?

	M:	Well I think it’s the same thing I alluded to before. And that is, I think, as a state and as a nation, we owe a duty to people that have been discriminated for three hundred years, and who have been held out of institutions, to try to increase those numbers, number one. And number two, I understand former Governor Jeb Bush’s abolishing affirmative action and all that. But, I think it’s important to say to the majority community, “You would benefit from this, too.” Not only in terms of social interaction and learning about different cultures, but these people pay taxes! They going pay a lot more with a college degree than without one! It would be beneficial to the entire society to have more, especially minorities, educated and making decent wages, as opposed to building more prisons. I know that may sound strange coming from me, but I see that as a endless pit, quite frankly, and it’s become an industry. I think an awful lot of talent is being wasted by warehousing these people for years and years and years, as opposed to putting the money on the front end, if you will, to try to assist them in making a positive step in improving their chances of success. And we all know that a college degree does that.

	W:	Let’s go Gator Nation for a second. This is a year we have a brand new slogan, “When did you first know you were a Gator?” So, when did you first know you were a Gator?

	M:	[Laughter] By “know,” I presume you mean, “felt in my heart,” so to speak. You know. Gosh… Probably when I came back to law school? I felt more kin to the





institution at that point. You might have heard Trustee Cunningham talking about the playing of Dixie at the football games, and the Kappa Alphas in their Confederate uniforms? I watched that happen while I was on this campus. They would ride past me sitting on the bench with these Confederate uniforms. And they’d ride horses through the Plaza of Americas, all around. I can remember my first football game. I went to it, and they played “Dixie,” and when all the White students stood up and waved rebel flags, I sat down. I wouldn’t move. They looked at me, I guess, as if I had the plague or something, but I wasn’t about to stand up for no “Dixie!” That was the atmosphere that prevailed. I think by getting away for a year and teaching school—I taught down in Cocoa, Florida—high school. And then, around Christmastime, I talked to my parents over Christmas break about the possibility of going to law school. And they encouraged me to do it. And when I came back to law school is when I said, “You know, I’m going get a law degree from this place.” And I never will forget, the dean had all us freshmen in the big auditorium. And it was a hundred students in the freshman class. After he got through with his spiel, he said, “Look to your left, and look to your right.

Because one of the three of you won’t be here at the end of this year.” I told him, “I’m going to be one of them that’s here!” [Laughter] “I ain’t going nowhere ‘til I get my degree!” I think that would probably be a turning point. Undergraduate, certainly not. I mean, that’s not an experience I’d wish on anyone. But like I said, I’m sure it made me a tougher individual. And I was determined they weren’t going to see me sweat. I just said, “I’m going to get as tough as it take to get what I came for here.” But I think that would probably be the turning point. And of





course, after that, I just became—they say you bleed orange and blue? I just became a rabid Gator at that point. And I can remember when Willie Jackson came to play football here in about [19]68 or thereabouts. And I went to the game. I was there when he caught that winning touchdown pass, and it was just, you know, you’d be surprised—well, maybe you wouldn’t.

	W:	Well, I had to catch myself in reflection, because you said “Willie Jackson.” I went to class with Willie, but not your Willie. [Laughter].

	M:	Oh, yeah, his son!



	W:	I was going to, “Oh yeah, Willie!” [Laughter]



	M:	No, no, this is old man Willie here; this is old man Willie. And, so I would say that would be the turning point, about 1967 when I came back to go to law school.

Yeah. And then of course, as the number of Black athletes increased, the interest in sports by the Black community increased. And it’s just—you see where it is now. So, I would have to say that would be the turning point, yeah.

	W:		I can think of thousands of other questions to ask you, but this is just one session. I want to thank you, Judge Mickle, for the opportunity to speak with you.

	M:	You’re very welcome, glad to do it. I was telling Florida earlier that I was thoroughly impressed with tonight’s program. I mean just blown away, knowing that a lot of hard work went into putting that production on! It was just first class all the way. The performers were just amazing. Amazing. I’m going to go tell Flora now, I must have a DVD of that program tonight, so I can sit on my sofa later on and enjoy it again! [Laughter]





	W:	Is there anything that we didn’t talk about in the interview that you’d like to take as a capstone for the interview? And when your comments are exhausted, that’ll complete the interview.

	M:	Not really, I think we pretty much covered it all. I mean, I could tell war stories for the next hour, but I’m not going to do that.

	W:	Well, I’d love to have the chance to speak with you again.



	M:	And it’s been a lot of change not only on this campus, but in this country. I can recall growing up here in Gainesville and having to go to the courthouse in downtown Gainesville. And they had two water fountains: one White, one Colored. And a sign up there. And they had three restrooms: White men, White women, and Colored. And that was state of the art, if you will. In the [19]50’s and [19]40’s in Gainesville—in most of the South—you know, segregation was legal. To walk around this campus now and see the different cultures that are represented—and I’m not just talking about Black folks: Indians—I mean, everywhere I look, it look like folks turning brown, all over the place! You know? And I’m going, “Wow, this is truly amazing! This is going to be a diverse population and the university is reflecting that.” And that’s good. That’s good.

Well listen, good talking with you.



	W:	Thank you, Judge Mickle. M:	Good luck with it.

	W:	Appreciate your time. [End of Interview.]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019