AAHP 479; Oliver; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 479 Kitty Oliver

African American History Program (AAHP) Interviewed by Ryan Morini on February 16, 2017 1 hour, 11 minutes | 33 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 479

Interviewee: Kitty Oliver Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: February 16, 2017



	M:	This is Ryan Morini, with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. What is the date? It’s February 16th, 2017, and I’m sitting here with Dr. Kitty Oliver. Thanks for joining me today. So, can we start with your full name?

	O:	My name is Kitty Oliver, and I was born Elouise Leakes. I married while here at the university, and so my professional name is Kitty Oliver, and everybody knows me by Kitty Oliver, and I’ve been called Kitty since I was a few months old. So, my preference is Kitty Oliver.

	M:	Can I ask how you came by the name “Kitty?”



	O:	My mother said that I looked like a little fat kitten when I was about four months old, and they started calling me “Kitty,” and it just stuck. And it got to the point where I had dual identities through school and high school graduation where most of the school friends knew me as Elouise, and everybody else in my life knew me as Kitty. [Laughter] And when I came to the University of Florida, I started introducing myself as Kitty. And so, I’ve been known as that ever since.

	M:	So, can I ask where and when you were born?



	O:	I was born in Jacksonville, Florida, in the late 1940s. I grew up in an all-Black community in Jacksonville. Segregation or apartheid was the rule there. I was raised by my mother mostly, who married as a teenager. She and my father separated, but they never really lived together after that, and they didn’t divorce either. So I say that to say that I was an only child and had a very special kind of upbringing, in that she was a young single mother; married but without a husband, so she struggled a lot, and therefore it was a challenging existence. But





I wouldn’t say it was in poverty, but we certainly were at a lower level compared to the other kids I grew up with.

	M:	And what was the name of the community?



	O:	It’s funny, it’s near downtown. We called it the Westside, because there was an Eastside Black community and you’d take the bus to connect there, because I went to church with my grandmother there. And then, there was a Southside Black community. But officially, there, they called it Northside. [Laughter] Now as I’ve gone back over the years Northside is, I guess, the official thing. But in that Westside of Jacksonville, we had the Strand Theater, the Roosevelt movie theater, and the Ritz theater, which now has been turned into a really nice cultural center in that community. We rode buses, and it was mostly back of the bus. And then, I remember when integration came to the point where I put the money in and I was told I could sit anywhere, as opposed to behind that white line. If you went to the hamburger place, to Krystal’s, you had to go outside and stand and give your order—and hope that somebody would come and take it, and wait until they brought it back. But within the community at Westside, there were stores. There were a shopping district of Ashley Street that was known kind of as the rough area, and as a little kid you loved to be able to go there because there would seem to be a lot of action going on. But, most of all, I remember the movie theaters because movies were such a big part of my life, and a way of escaping and seeing a larger world during that time. And the Strand showed the war movies, the Roosevelt had a stage and they would have talent shows sometimes at night where the older kids would go and perform. I wasn’t allowed





to go. Then Ritz had the action movies, and you threw popcorn on the floor and made a mess, and all of that. [Laughter] So those were the things I kind of remembered about the community that were fun as a kid. Other than that, though, there was a lot of hardship I was aware of, and I think it had to do with the struggles that my mother—that I just described—had, because she thought she was going to be a housewife. She had graduated high school, but the opportunities were very limited of what she could do beyond that. Because she wanted to be a nurse, but she would have had to go to Atlanta, and her parents were not going to send her there. How was she going to go? How could she pay for it? So, there were all those things stopping her from doing a lot of things because of that segregated period, that I was aware of once opportunities opened up for me; how different my life became at the age she had me. By the time she had me at nineteen and a half, and by the time I was nineteen, how much the world had changed.

	M:	A few questions, I guess, but one: did you interaction much with the White communities in Jacksonville, or were you pretty much within that community growing up?

	O:	Pretty much within that community, and I’d say 99%. As I ended up writing about, the only White person I remember was an insurance man that would come into the community once in a while. And we could catch the bus, for instance, and sit anywhere we wanted until we got downtown, and then if it was moving into any White communities we knew we had to sit back. So you’d see White people, perhaps, in that way. And, once in a rare while, a White person might bring my





mother home from work at some food establishment where she worked. But as far as contact was concerned? Absolutely not. When I look back on it, that’s why I call it apartheid. There were people you saw, but it wasn’t a world you interacted with or rubbed elbows with at all. And it was designed to keep you separate. Then, all of that changes within a year or two from [19]64 and [19]65.

	M:	And you’re a teenage around then, correct?



	O:	Right, I am a teenager: fifteen, sixteen, seventeen. Those became the pivotal years in the mid-[19]60s when everything shifted. I should also mention with the schools in Jacksonville, I went to Darnell Cookman Elementary. Darnell Cookman is still there functioning as a magnet school. I went to James Weldon Johnson Junior High, and that building is still there as some kind of facility. And I graduated from New Stanton Senior High, a few blocks from where we lived in the Westside, and that has become a very noted pre-baccalaureate magnet program that draws White kids from all over the county. And, it’s predominantly White! [Laughter] So, that’s kind of interesting how things evolve in that way.

	M:	It is. So, can I ask just a little about your schooling experiences? I think a lot of Americans—well, White Americans particularly—generally don’t realize how much pride there was in a lot the Black schools at this time, that they’re separate but unequal, obviously, but there were a lot of dedicated educators in a lot of schools. What did the teachers at the schools do to prepare you for the transitions that were ahead? Because you lived through quite a few of them.

	O:	Given the economic background that I had, school was the major outlet. And I was—still am, as far as I know—an only child. [Laughter] And was kept pretty





cloistered just by mother’s design, to not have me be influenced by too much on the outside world. School was really my outlet to the world. So I did well in school, and I had teachers who responded to how well I was doing, and who encouraged me. So what I remember most from the schooling experience was the encouragement that you were able to get at least in some subjects that kept you going, and could give you a vision that, hey, maybe you could go to a Bethune Cookman College—I guess it was Cookman, Bethune Cookman by then. Or even Florida A&M or some of the other Black colleges at that time. And that was really the direction of whether you were college material versus vocational education. So that whole distinction came about especially by the time you got to high school, which track you were on. So if you were on the college prep track, you were taking certain courses, you were socializing or interacting in school with people of a certain level who were destined to do something in the community. And then, those other people were directed towards vocational education, more that, well, academics were not going to be your strong suit, so look at woodworking or something else you might be able to do. So that, being on the college prep track, if you will, you definitely got the encouragement from the teachers, that, “Okay, we see something in you that we think that maybe you probably are going to be able to go on.” I think I went in a direction that though those teachers didn’t see—I probably have a slightly have a different take on growing up in that segregated world, because there were a lot of stratas. And I think sometimes people share and talk about it as idyllic situation where everybody was nurturing, and wonderful, and it was such an incubator of growth





and development. And I was not really a part of that circle. There were a couple of teachers that were supportive. There was not a social life that I was a part of that made me feel that that was my heyday. [Laughter] I couldn’t wait to get out. And by the time—and as I said because I did well in school, that gave me a little bit of leverage that, “Oh okay, you’re doing okay despite your background.” And then, when I got into the University of Florida, they were shocked. Because when people were sharing in high school, “Where are you going? You going to college?” And, I had looked at a couple of Black colleges, but then said, “I’m going to the University of [Florida].”—“You?” I remember one teacher saying. [Laughter] The choral director, where I had been singing just kind of anonymously in the chorus group. “You?”. So I was never one of those that seemed to be destined for greatness as far as they were concerned, but I was okay. And I think there needs to be room for that, because sometimes we tell those stories as if, “I was going to be something marvelous until integration came, and took the wind out of my sails.” [Laughter]. No, I would have just been considered to be just an average person in that community, whereas I had the opportunity to do something even more than I would have ever dreamed when the world changed.

	M:	You described some of that in your book, in terms of the, you called them the “it girls,” or the—

	O:	Miss-Its and the Miss-Outs. M:	Yes, Yes.





	O:	I was the Miss-Out. [Laughter] I was one of the Miss-Outs. Yes, exactly. And the Miss- Its know who they are, because they were the ones who knew they were popular. They knew their place. They had a place in that world and in that society. And I guess that’s all I’m saying; often when people share about that past, they share because they had a good sense of place. And then there were some others like me who were out of place, you know? And never felt like we quite fit it anyway. So, perhaps that allowed us to move on to some other places where we might have been uncomfortable but were also able to grow.

	M:	I was going to ask that, if that kind of helped you to adapt to—I want to ask a little more about the civil rights activities you saw in Jacksonville, if that’s okay—or experienced and participated in—but coming to the University of Florida campus, I wonder: do see that as an advantage in some ways, that you didn’t feel like you had a very comfortable place, whereas some of those other students might have had a harder time adjusting to a place where there was no such place?

	O:	I think, absolutely! And that’s why I understand—and as I’ve gotten older, I’ve understood that more and more—that because I was not so comfortable and set where I was there, when the opportunity to be somewhere else came up, and it meant I might be uncomfortable there, it wasn’t that much of a stretch. “Well hey, I’m not that comfortable here! [Laughter] Then all right, I’ll be somewhere else, but I might have the possibility of some new experiences.” So the possibilities of something new and different in a bigger world was more intriguing to me than the things I was going to have to endure as a part of that. But the people who were comfortable, and thought that moving to the new world was just going to move





them to the next level, and found instead that they were pushed down; I can see it was a jarring experience. And probably for some of them, they never quite got over it, because they felt like they were destined; they had the status, they were destined to do more, they’d been groomed to be more, they expected more, and then the encountered situations where the society didn’t look at them the same way. And that had to be really—I kind of slid in under the radar. [Laughter] Nobody expected much. But for civil rights activity, that was interesting because a lot of the Black history stories have been collected of people who were in the forefront, people who had suffered a lot and given a lot. And then, to me, I call those people who really pushed open the door. And then there were people like me who were among the first ones to begin the step through the door after the door was knocked down, or really pushed open. So, I had some civil rights resistance experiences, very definitely, in Jacksonville. And they didn’t seem major to me at the time, but as I look back on them, yeah, I guess for a sheltered teenager who was not a part of any group that was trying to do it, when the opportunity came that the—League of Women’s Voters. League of Women’s Voters was one of the organizing groups in Jacksonville. When Medgar Evers was assassinated, they went to—how they found me, I don’t know, but teenagers, I guess, sent a call out, and they were looking for some people to march. And that was the first march I did, and it was a quiet march through the downtown, of just holding a sign about him. I don’t think I even knew who Medgar Evans was in general, but it seemed to be the right thing to do. And I remember the catcalls as we were walking down the street and all that. That was the first.





Later on—maybe that was in early [19]64, maybe in [19]63—and then [19]64, the Beatles came to the Gator Bowl. And I was one of those Black people who went. The Beatles refused to perform unless the audiences would be integrated. And they put it in their contract, and that was the first time that had come. And so Jacksonville had to open it up. I happened to be a Beatles fan, I didn’t know about any of that, I heard they were coming, found a way to make some money. I went there and bought my ticket there at the gate and went in. And I was the only one that I saw—as was going out I saw two other Black people, a brother and sister; I didn’t know them. I told them that I had come alone, because my girlfriend wouldn’t go, but I went alone. And somehow, my mother let me go. And fifty years later, Ron Howard is making a movie documentary on the Beatles, “Eight Days a Week: the Touring Years,” celebrating that period of three years when they came to the States from the popularity in [19]63 to [19]64 with all of the civil rights activity, into [19]65. And they discovered that Jacksonville story, which they had even forgotten, Paul and Ringo. And Ron Howard found me, and interviewed me, and so I am in the Beatles movie, which just won a grammy for best music film. So, it’s just interesting how things come around; I had kind of forgotten about it, but certainly, that was a pivital experience. And earlier that year, that same summer of [19]64, the college students had come, sponsored by the Y, to do voter rights registration around the Jacksonville area and some of the smaller communities. And they had a sign-up at the YWCA asking if some high school students would want to join with them. And I signed up for it. And I thought my friend was going to do it, and she dropped out, and once again I





went. And that was my first encounter with white people. So, I did that first, the march for Medgar Evers, then a few months later that summer, for two weeks, we went out—or maybe it was a week. But we went door to door, knocking on doors, and I was with these White college students, and they actually treated me like a peer. And it was just remarkable. First time of even just being close enough to touch elbows. And it had a profound effect on me, and we even corresponded for a few years after that. And then, the Beatles opportunity of going and seeing them in the Gator Bowl. And then they were picketing Morrison’s Cafeteria, which happened to be where my dad was a waiter. And somehow, I was out there in Hemmings Park, picketing. [Laughter] And it didn’t click that maybe he would find out; I mean, we weren’t super close, but I knew he was there. And a little while later I think he came and said, “So-and-so said that you were outside picketing.” “No, no, not me!” [Laughter] So there was, it was serious stuff that was going on, but some of it, you know, you’re a kid, and you don’t know, and it seems like a lark: “I’ll do it!” And then, you know, “Maybe I shouldn’t have done that.” But those were my introductions, my civils rights activity, if you would say. Obviously, watching TV, and seeing everything that was going with Dr. King, and all the tragedies that were happening. And the murder of the three civil rights workers in Mississippi, I think, had the strongest effect on me, because they were Black and White, working together, and then suffering that fate, too. So I had that sense by the time I was graduating high school that things were changing, and things needed to change, and I wanted to be a part of that. And then, the University of Florida opportunity came up.





	M:	Were you familiar with Ax Handle Saturday in Jacksonville, or had you heard about that violence at that time?

	O:	That’s funny, I heard about it in the aftermath, this is when they organized and went to St. Augustine? Or, in Hemming Park. In Hemming Park. Right! I don’t really recall that. Obviously, I was around during that, but no, I don’t remember that.

	M:	I mean, I was just wondering in terms of the mindset of what your—so, did you feel a sense of danger at that time when you were doing those—or were you kind of just a kid, like—?

	O:	They were such selected experiences that they were just experiences for a kid. Because all of those I only did one time. It wasn’t like signing up and repeatedly going, and then having it escalate, and then having come back for the next one and the next one. Somebody invited me or asked me to do something or whatever, then I did it, and it was an experience. But the sense that you needed to be safe was ingrained in me by people, especially in the church. I was involved in my grandmother’s church, so I went often, and I sang in the choir and all that. And we had a youth department, and they would lecture us all the time: “Don’t get involved in that civil rights mess.” So at the same time, you had all that going on, you had the reins being pulled on you, too, especially if you wanted to be a good girl; it would go on your permanent record, they said. [Laughter] Permanent record in the sky! [Laughter]. No one wanted their permanent record marred. And so, if you did by doing something, it was just that little naughtiness, it was like “All right, you’re telling me not to do it, but I am going to do it a little.” But, I think





that’s where the danger—there was truly that fear, there was that aspect in the community, too. At the same time that people were getting involved and doing things, there was also that fear that you would put yourself in danger or put others in danger; put your parents, or their livelihood, in danger. So, the best thing was stay away from those people as much as possible. Stay in your own world.

	M:	And then, you spoke of some the romanticization of some the pre-integration Black community and schools and other things; it’s my perception that there’s also romanticization to some degree of the Civil Rights Movement, in terms of making it sound unanimous when it wasn’t. When you did have church directors and people saying, “Stay out,” or “That’s trouble,” or “That’s—.” But it sounds like your mother—the sense I get from your book is that your mother was really unfailing in supporting you in following your beliefs or convictions. Is that—?

	O:	My mother is a character. Still is. And I wonder about that sometimes. Because she was afraid to do a lot of things, but she did allow me. And I think it was a sense that she felt I was a pretty good kid. And that she had instilled that sense of being careful and being safe. And so, if I chose to do things as I began to make my choices along the way, she accepted those choices because they were always done within the parameters of safety. And I think she felt, and it was true, that I wasn’t going to do anything outrageous. Or if I chose to do something, it was probably going to be after thinking about it and trying to make a good decision, and I really respect that with her. So she didn’t interfere in that way because the things I was interested in, and the things I wanted to do, were so far





afield from anything that was a part of her. So, she let me do it. And maybe because she was a young mother; so, she was still growing up and trying to find her way and live her life, so it made her feel better, “Oh you could take care of yourself.” [Laughter]. But I think that allowance was probably—she didn’t seem to have the fear about what would happen to me, and I had enough fear that I didn’t go out and try to do things that I thought were going to put me in danger. I admired those people who could do that, but I was never one of those. I thought more about the choices I made. The romanticization that we’re talking about, we call the “nostalgic recall” because that’s it: “Everything was so much more wonderful and so much better then.” [Laughter] “Yes, we never locked our doors—.” I wore a key around my neck from the time I went to elementary school to make sure—[Laughter]—to keep the door locked, and unlock and get right in, and lock it back again! So, that wasn’t my experience. I’m not saying that people didn’t experience that, but that wasn’t mine. It wasn’t that it was a safe, wonderful world. There was danger. [Laughter]. There was dissent, there were fights, there were—. [Laughter] There were all kinds of things going on. You had to keep your head down; there were bullies, there were dangerous areas in the Black community that you didn’t go into, people you didn’t associate with for whatever reason.

	M:	And I think you draw out a lot of that in your book, in terms of talking about the bullies and talking about some of those other issues. I’m reminded, though, in particular: I’ve interviewed Dan Harmeling here in Gainesville. And you mention him your book, actually, because part of the University of Florida story is he and





some other students—the way he kind of tells it, kind of conning UF into funding them, because they weren’t very up front about what they were doing—going out and recruiting Black students for UF, because UF was not working very hard to do that at that time. What was your encounter like? My understanding is that’s when you first thought about going to UF. Is that about right?

	O:	I would never have thought of UF or any other White university. I checked into Florida A&M, but I didn’t want to stay in Florida. I knew I was leaving. I was interested in North Carolina A&T because North Carolina just sounded nice. And they accepted me, but we had no money to go there, my mom and I. When the Freedom Party came to introduce themselves at my high school, the announcement came that there was going to be a group coming to talk about college. I don’t even remember them saying “University of Florida,” but “—talking about college. If you’re interested in it, we’re going to give you a fried chicken lunch, and you can come and hear them.” And you had to have passed and had a certain score on what was then the state assessment test that allowed you to be accepted into a state university. If you made more than, I think it was above 300 or whatever. So they invited those of us who fit into that category so that our grades would’ve meant that we could be accepted at the University of Florida. I remember there were twelve, we had our little box lunches of chicken. [Laughter] This tall, good-looking guy came, and he said, “We’re with the Freedom Party.

The university is not recruiting. You are allowed to come, you qualify, all you have to do is register. We’d like to show you around if you’d like to come.” And my mom agreed to it. Somehow we put together the money, and I took a





Trailways bus—he said, “If you can pay your way, we’ll meet you and we’ll show you around the campus.” And there were five of us from my school who went. I remember being on the bus—I don’t know if others went on the bus, if they were driven there, or whatever. But I remember we got there, and different people met us at different spots, showed us around the campus, and I went, “Wow!” This was like a city to me, “Wow!” And there was one Black guy in the group, had a blue blazer on. And that guy had been from Jacksonville, had gone to A&M, and was a transfer student as a junior. And he had just started. So he was saying how he had come, and there weren’t any freshmanthere—because there weren’t any Black freshmen, there were only a handful of students of color. They estimated about thirty or so when I did research with the university later. But anyway, so seeing that one was enough to—“Huh, that’s possible!” And then meeting all these people. So we came back with the papers. And so I told mom, “We’re going to fill out these papers,” and someone told me about the War on Poverty, and the grants-in-aid program that had just been enacted. A friend of my mother’s, her daughter had gotten some money to go somewhere, and she helped us fill out the paperwork. And that was the major thing for my mom: having to divulge just how poor we were, and her pride in doing that. Once I convinced her that this was going to help me move forward, she shared the information, and I got the aid, and just began to piece together the money. And I got accepted. [Laughter] That was probably March or April, and by August—we went back I think that summer, we had something where the parents came to bring the students to look at the campus. And I went alone, and stayed at the





dorm and looked around. And then, in August, got on the bus to come here. And that was all I knew about here. The Freedom Party people who had come, what the place looked like, and then following the instructions of where to go. I was assigned to Broward Hall, first floor—I think it was “101,” because it was right by the door at the end. My randomly assigned roommate was the only other Black student there. She and I had absolutely nothing in common. She came from sort of a middle class community in a small town in Titusville, and I was a big city girl from Jacksonville. She was in business and very quiet, and would go home on the weekends from time to time. I stayed. So, that was my first contact with White people; other than those girls for the voter registration drive, I’d never been around them, and we had to live in the dorm for two years. Morning, noon, night, locked down, the doors would be locked. That’s when I started to understand the differences in who we are and find ways that we could relate. So, there five of us Black freshmen who came, another girl from my high school also enrolled. She lived alone in Yulee Hall and dropped out. I don’t know if she made it through the whole year, but I know she dropped out. She was struggling with grades, and struggling with living alone and being away from home and all that. And so, my roommate and I stayed and graduated. The other two guys from Miami who were roommates, they stayed and graduated and went on. There may have been a few other Black freshmen in the community who were commuting. But, we were the first to have that full campus experience.

	M:	Did you have much interaction with the Black communities in Gainesville, or were you pretty much on campus?





	O:	Pretty much on campus at first. We had a little orientation, and I don’t know who it was who did it. It may have been—it seems like there was somebody from the university officially. But, the word came that we could only be protected as long we stayed within the confines of the university, and I guess 13th and University Avenue was sort of, like, given the boundary. After that, they couldn’t protect us. And so, my roommate and I remembered when we had to walk across 13th to go down to McCrory’s or some store to buy curtains and things, you know, seeing trucks go by with the guns and Confederate flags, and the ax handles, and all of that. You know, I’m just saying, just remember—and one time, somebody called out something. But just remembering that jarring feeling of, “All right, don’t go too far. As long as you’re on the campus, you can handle it.” But in my sophomore year, I started dating the Black man who was part of the Freedom Party. I saw him when I came on campus. As soon as I got to campus, I happened to spot him. And so, he helped to show me around, and we ended up going over in the Black community to a little club called “Sarah’s Old Bar.” And they had music.

And so, that became my introduction more to the Black community. So, we’d go over and illegally drink, and dance a little bit, and listen to blues and jazz. And of course, every time you’d say, “You’re here at the university? No way!” [Laughter] And there were some Black people who worked on campus, and you’d see them. And kind of moved around in the shadows, almost, of it. But, yeah, that was the only experience.

	M:	Can I ask; did you interact much with Ms. Sarah? Sarah McKnight was—





	O:	No. No, it’s funny I remember, I think, kind of meeting her when we came in, and she was nice in sort of letting us come in, maybe three or four of us. The guy I was dating, and who I eventually married, was of age. And we didn’t abuse anything. I remember that, that she was there at the door when we came, but I never met her. Was she a character?

	M:	I mean, I’ve heard a lot of fond memories of her I guess, because she was sort of a pillar of the community in some ways. I could go on about that, I guess. Her club was on the Chitlin’ Circuit, I don’t know if you were seeing, like, big acts at that time, but she did have Sam Cooke, and B.B. King, and folks come through like that.

	O:	I guess I must have seen posters or something to know that. I didn’t go there to see any acts, and we didn’t go that often. There was so much of a personal life that was going on here on campus, and adapting to things. So, we weren’t socializing in that way. But, I knew that it was a significant place, because when one of the people who worked here had mentioned, “Have you been to Sarah’s?” And then, “Sarah’s!” Then as a sophomore there were a couple of other incoming students who were Black—“Sarah’s!” And so, we started to go. [Laughter]

	M:	What was it like when you first went to your classes? Because you’re probably the only Black student in almost every one.

	O:	I was the only—right, and they had the general classes to begin with, and I just remember walking into one of the first classrooms. There must’ve been a couple of hundred students, it seemed—one of those giant lecture halls—yeah. And walking across the campus—this is what I mean, some people have the story of





just being encountered, and having things thrown at them, and having all kinds of traumatic encounters. But, some of us have had more traumatic psychological things to deal with. And I think walking around and not having anyone speak to you, walking around not knowing whether there was going to be any kind of outburst, trying to keep yourself small, if you will, or compact; and I called it building that wall. So that you could go ahead and function, so that at least you look like it doesn’t matter whether you’re alone or whether somebody interacts or doesn’t. So in that hall, I just had make myself a wall there and go and sit and find a seat—you sit, keep your eyes straight ahead, listen to what’s going on, try to understand it. And I’m sure over time you got to nod or smile at people; but at the beginning, there really wasn’t a camaraderie. There wasn’t an atmosphere where you felt you could interact and say, “Hi, my name is So-and-so-and-so.” It was more just finding a slot. I did well in English classes. And so by the second term, I was in Honors English. And so the classes were smaller. And that was when I began to have the opportunity to interact, because I was finding my footing, and we’re talking about literature and we’re beginning to write. And I had been writing from high school and all. So then, we began to talk, and I began to make a few, at least, classroom friends, and interact more directly with the professors, and started to feel more comfortable. Interestingly, that second year, there must’ve been some complaints because UF wasn’t getting a lot of Black students coming in—still weren’t doing very much. And the president then—I may have read about it in the book, because I don’t remember his name now—that this committee or council on the disadvantaged, and I became chairman of that.





[Laughter] To study this student organization and to come up with recommendations. And so, I did that. Somehow, they had gotten wind of me and—. [Laughter] The only one in Arts and Sciences. And in the English Department. And then, with the man I eventually married as a junior, we began performing. Because he played guitar, and we started doing a few things here and there. And there was a folk club in town; I’ll think of it in a minute. We started doing some music there. And they opened a Rathskeller here on campus. The first beer hall. And we opened the place and became the house band. So, for about a year or so, we played music: folk, rock, blues. We had a white bass player named Jamie Sterett. His dad was a science professor, I think, here. He was a little younger than me, but he was into playing. And so we had a group, and I began to get my footing; and then, as an English major, I worked for the English department while I took classes. I took creative writing and I had a story published in the Florida Quarterly. I helped them revive the English Honorary Society and was president of it, was tapped from Mortar Board, which was a women’s honorary where they go and do a candlelight march to come out and announce, and to invite you when you’re tapped. So, a lot of things began to grow and happen as I found my footing and my voice here at Florida.

	M:	Sounds that way. Was there ever kind of an issue with, again, not so much a direct hostility thing, but—I would guess a lot of the literature in the English department was White authors and—was it still kind of tough to connect on some level with the curriculum and that kind of thing? Or, were you—?





	O:	I wouldn’t say it was tough to connect, but very definitely there was an absence of Black literature. But, coming from the school—I discovered James Baldwin, and I read and did reports on a lot of his work. I can’t say that we were inundated with a lot of Black literature in my high school, either. Because there was a certain curriculum and a certain desire to try to become learned in the society you were being prepared for. So, I didn’t note the absence, let’s say, as much in the program as maybe some others did, and especially late on as a lot of the literature was brought into the canon. But, when I wrote in that creative writing class, the first semester, the short story about a little boy and his grandmother, and it very definitely was about the world I knew, and was Black, the creative writing professor, Smith Kirkpatrick—who became a mentor of mine, he is now passed—he leaped on it. Because he was seeing the need for that voice. He was one of the people that encouraged me to write from that perspective, that there was a space for it within the literature. So then, of course, as I began to write, I wrote more in that vein. After going out in the world and working as a journalist and then, as a professor, I was introduced to more and more of the literature to see what tradition I was following with the kind of writing I was doing. And Zora Neale Hurston was definitely a mentor.

	M:	We’ve talked about kind of interacting with students, but I guess all your professors were White, weren’t they?

	O:	Oh gosh, yes!



	M:	What was that like? Did you get much support from any? Did you find ones who wouldn’t work with you, ones who would? What was the kind of—?





	O:	I certainly found some who would work with me. I found a lot more distance, which sometimes made it difficult to close the gap, as an undergraduate especially, and in that first year I struggled. I mean, I did okay, I made the grades that I needed to. But I struggled because I was introduced to things I had never really known about, and the professors really were not very open to working with me. Once I began to take courses in my major, I think the English professors I found more approachable. I will say the Honors English class I took the second term in my freshman year was very interesting because a segment of it was speech. So, you had to get up and do presentations. Now, here I do this for a living, now—and I did it in church and with the community in Jacksonville. But I got up and did mine, and he referred me to a speech pathologist. He said I had a speech defect. He said, “You have a lisp, and that needs to be corrected, because you don’t speak correctly.” And that was very deflating. Because you think, “I’ve been performing and speaking, I won a scholarship when I got out of high school for an oratorical contest. What? I can’t speak?” [Laughter]. But now, whether he was just looking for something to pick on—I mean, I think I got an A- minus in the course because of that. So if you look back on it, you don’t know where that’s coming from, or whether he thought he truly was trying to make me better? I don’t know. So, the subtleties of that, which definitely show up from time to time throughout my life—and I think as a Black person in the South and in this country, it’s always a problem, because you can never quite be sure, when you have an issue and you don’t measure up, is it really because, well, hey, that’s kind of where you were, or if there was that other little element there of racial—





perspective. I’m not even saying racism; obviously that can be there, and sometimes obvious racism is easier to detect. Okay, you’re excluded. But the little twinges like I’m talking about: “Well you know, you’re all right, but you got this little thing.” “You know, if it wasn’t for this, you could do it.” And then you go, “Well is it really that, or are you just trying to find something that cuts you down a little”?

	M:	So what did you do for a support network, or if you were struggling with a concept in a class? Because this is prior to a lot of resources being available. What did you do at that time?

	O:	As I recall, the girls in the dorm became very much of a support system for me.



Finding a few, I’m sure not all of them. We were the first floor girls, and there was a resident assistant there who was an upper division student. Maybe she was a graduate student, I don’t know. And so, by us having a curfew and being locked in, and then we would all be there studying, we would be in and out of each other’s rooms a lot. And so there was a little core of about four or five of the girls there. And I think we helped and supported each other in that way more than anything else. They did have a tutorial service for freshmen, and I think I may have gone there. And as I said, I didn’t do badly. I got a probably a 2.8, maybe something like that. I had been more of an A student in high school, so by comparison it was difficult, but when I saw a lot of the White girls going home from my dorm after the first semester, and they may have even been merit scholars—! [Laughter] I realized I was doing okay. So, I didn’t have anything so drastic happen that I thought I was really failing, and flailing, and nobody was





helping me. I think it was just that adjustment period, and it helped having some friendships, having some relationships in the dorm of girls who were at least receptive. That experience could’ve really gone downhill as I think about it, if the girls had been catty and cliquish, and put toilet paper on your door, had done some things that were really ugly; it could have made that experience bad. But it didn’t happen at all. Several of those girls became close enough friends that they came to my wedding; actually, they helped to provide the food and some of the other things when I got married on campus. And we kept in touch for a bit. I went to a couple of the weddings of a couple of them. So, there was a bond that was formed, at least for a while, there.

	M:	Sounds like it was very important—



	O:	And I don’t think that would have happened if we hadn’t had to live on campus. I think if I had come to the university and had gotten an apartment off campus, even though I had found a roommate, I wouldn’t have had that network that was forced upon me by having to live on campus.

	M:	Did you ever—and it’s understandable if the answer is no—but did you ever wish there was some sort of Black Student Union or some kind of—did you try to conceive of some way of actually having whatever sort of organization or better support? Or, was that not really on your mind back then?

	O:	I don’t think having a Black Student Union or anything like that was on my mind. I was able to find support systems in some different places because there wasn’t one altogether. But, there was a spiritual community that I found through the Methodist Student Center. I would go there, not for the church, but for the





students who gathered there. And of course they were all White, but the guy I married was involved with that organization because he lived in housing for a while there. So, we would go over to spaghetti suppers and interact with the people there. They were starting a Reform Jewish congregation there, so some students invited us to come, and I enjoyed that. And they urged me to convert and I was thinking about doing it. [Laughter] So, I ended up having more of a multicultural experience even from the beginning. So, I think that helped not longing for a Black experience, because I’d had that growing up for seventeen years! [Laughter] So, I was being introduced to some other people from some other backgrounds and they were creating a network for me. By the time I graduated, most of our friends were professors and graduate students— instructors just out of grad school, and starting to teach and all from other countries. Those were the people we kind of hung out with. Then, I began to hear their stories, and I got a job with the Foreign Student Center here on campus, helping the students when their applications came in, and reviewing them, and meeting them. So, my world was continuing to expand enough that I didn’t miss what I considered by then a small network.

	M:	What was that Foreign Student Center experience like? Because you do mention it in the book in terms of—?

	O:	The introduction—I guess I did it one semester, we may have been on trimester then, because they weren’t full semesters. At one point we had trimesters, at one point we had quarters. So, it for one term. And, it was just seeing the people when they came on campus. Some of them were wearing their traditional





clothing. And that was kind of different to see. But more than anything else it was realizing how far I had come, because I was able to show them around and help to make them comfortable—even though they were in graduate school, most of them, transferring or coming here from somewhere else, and a little bit older than me. It was just seeing that they were adjusting just like I was, and I think that’s where that concept that I was an immigrant, too, kind of began to be formed. You come to some place new, you don’t know the people and people are so different from you. How do you adapt? How much do you take on? Who can you find to help you? So, it was an office job, student employment; I mean, it wasn’t brain surgery. [Laughter] You just go through the applications and check off the boxes to make sure they did everything, right? That was definitely new exposure for me. Because where I grew up in Jacksonville, we didn’t even have Caribbeans in that Westside community. They were people from South Carolina, or Georgia, or people who had lived in Florida, their families for generations. That was just home.

	M:	Can I ask also, not so much in terms of direct confrontation as you talked about, but did you see a lot of Confederate flags on campus? Or, did you hear kind of class discussions or things that were sort of awkward, or—?

	O:	Confederate flags; the singing of Dixie I would hear. The Kappa Alpha house that scared the heck out of me for a long time, because when they had Kappa Days or Kappa Weekend and the flag would be out there, and they’d be in that Civil War garb and riding the horses; and you knew not to walk over that side. Is it University Avenue, or—where the fraternities are, is it 13th?





	M:	University I think is what you’re talking about.



	O:	I remember them being over there, and you’d make sure you stayed way on the grass. It’s not that they did anything directly, but it was just that show. And at one time, I think there was that rumor that they had a slave, had someone posing as a slave. So, it was just acting out that whole drama. And then, years later I think I remember reading about when there was a Black person who became a Kappa Alpha. And I don’t if it was here or whatever, but, so even they’ve changed in some way. That kind of confrontation or fear that these were people on campus and they could, to me, act out in that way. I mean, that’s their tradition, but that was scary. The sense that there were these people riding around that lived in Gainesville and all these towns around—you know, Williston, Ocala—that these were dangerous places. Archer. And that they had a lot of malice toward us. That was very scary. And, I hadn’t had that in Jacksonville, once again, because living in that isolated—well, more prescribed—area that was larger. So, Gainesville was a scary place for me, and it took me a long time to make peace with central Florida and to come back and actually relax like I’m doing now. We just did an appearance in Ocala, and had a nice conversation with people there, and seeing how it’s grown and changed, and gotten larger and more diverse.

	M:	In the book, you said that you knew Gainesville growing up as Cow Town. What was the perception Gainesville for you before you got here?

	O:	Well, Gainesville was the university. I mean, that was the name for a place, but it was the university. And even when I got here, that was it. So if you wanted any life, any world, it was here, and anything outside of that was what you avoided or





tried to get away from as much as possible. The perception I think was, overall, though, that the University was still pretty progressive, compared to a lot of other places in Florida—and Jacksonville being one of them. Because the racial attitudes seemed to be so hardened in the city of Jacksonville that the university, by comparison to me, seemed to be a little more liberal because there were at least were more attitudes. There certainly were the hardened attitudes, but there were more Freedom Party people, and there was the newspaper at the time— what was the off-campus newspaper? It was The Alligator on the one hand, and then there was—oh gosh, I can’t think of it, because the big thing about it is they had this semi-nude photograph on it that just disturbed the heck out of everybody! [Laughter] And so, there was that movement among the students, too, at that time, the White students, to break rules. And so, hey, you know?

Accepting Black people was part of breaking rules! So, I kind of hung out more with that group as I got my bearings here. The group that was demonstrating, that was anti-establishment, it was more hippie, and more kind of laid-back.

There was that group you could find on the campus here, and that made it seem a little more liberal to me.

	M:	Well, you mentioned in the book you had a friend—who I think was also a dormmate if not a roommate—and then there was a conversation where you realized that she had felt the racial barrier more than you had. It seemed like that was a reflection you saw as emblematic of a number of your experiences here. Is that right?





	O:	Absolutely. I think that experience with her helped to set the tone for relationships I would have as time went on with Whites. It’s one thing when you find your bearings and you start to get comfortable, and you figure out that this is maybe where I fit, and “Okay, everything’s okay. I can handle it.” And that encounter where she said that, she came from southern Florida; and I had been her big sister, sending her information about the dorm, and offering to show her around and get her acclimated as a freshman when she came in. And watching her get adjusted. She was blonde and cute, and she was doing this and going out and having the social life I never could’ve had. So it was a very—you know, I liked her a lot. And when she told me that, that when she saw that I was Black, the person she had been corresponding with in that way was Black, and when I invited her to go out to dinner—as we would do—and she didn’t go, and that she really was ashamed to be sitting with me, and all of those feelings of prejudice that came up; and she was sharing it to say that she didn’t feel that now. And that was when I realized, you know, how open would I need to be to continue this journey? Because the reaction could always be, “Later for you,” and “That’s what you felt,” and “How could this be?” And all of that. Or try to realize, okay, she was trying to share something because she was talking about how she had changed. And so, to make that note, that just because I was moving forward in one way didn’t necessarily mean that the other person is on that same level. That there are going to be these gaps that we encounter.

	M:	It seems as you’ve been the ‘first Black’ a lot of things— O:	Certainly one of the first, yeah, that’s for sure. Mmhm.





	M:	Well yes, in different specific locations. Did the support always feel very sincere?



Did it ever feel tokenistic? Has it been tough that way to kind of—?



	O:	I think it’s been both ways. Sometimes it’s been sincere, that people sincerely have wanted to make an effort and make a move, and maybe they saw me as the opportunity to do that. That’s how I think I think I got into the Miami Herald, as one of the first Black reporters. When I called and persisted in looking for a job, and then the editor asked where I graduated, thinking it was Florida A&M maybe; and I said, “University of Florida.” And he went, “Oh! Come right in!” So, being Black, having the credentials, and at a good time when they wanted to make a shift, all worked well. If you wanted to call it a token, I’d say it wasn’t, it was really being a door-opener in that sense, and being willing to do it, was good. I haven’t had a lot of experiences where I think just being used as a token and feeling used came up. They have been choices where I’ve been used, and I’ve used them if it served a purpose for me. And that’s okay to move me to another level to do something, and that’s work. I think as I write, that Mortar Board experience helped me a lot, because that was a very prestigious organization. And I let myself be talked out of it by my mate, who had a little more antagonistic attitude towards this integration experience. And that’s what he felt, they were selecting me as that token to hold up. So I didn’t go to the ceremony. I still regret that enough that from then afterwards, I thought, “Why shortchange me of that?” Even if it was a token, it was a women’s honorary, and they were honoring me as someone they felt had been doing some things on campus, and should be in the organization. And the fact that I was Black didn’t hurt! [Laughter] You know, hey;





it was a win-win situation for everyone. So that’s the way I began to look at it, that allowed me, at least, to move into some of these areas. Then, by moving into these areas and performing all right, it opened the door for other people to step in, and groups of people to step in and have a support system. So, I think it served a purpose.

	M:	So I do have some more Gainesville and UF questions—oh, timewise we’re at— oh, yeah. We’re at time, just about. Okay, I have a quick question, one follow-up if you have a second; did you do anything for recreation? Go to the springs or anything around here?

	O:	Funny. [Laughter] Only in later years that I even discovered the springs, I would hear about it. The group of friends we had who lived in surrounding areas, who might have been involved in the university in other ways, they would talk about going tubing—and, you know, I never learned how to swim, so there were some recreational things I didn’t do. I remember going on a hay ride, though.

Somebody sponsored that, that was a first. I got one of the professors in physical education was starting an international folk troupe, and she asked me to become a part of it because I couldn’t pass the swimming test, because I didn’t know how to swim. [Laughter] So I was the only Black one doing the Shasta ka, dressed in the European outfits. And we went around and we performed. It was an international troupe. But it was fun. The singing, the musical performances, were fun. But, yeah, I wasn’t an outdoorsy kind of person, so I didn’t miss any of that.

	M:	Sorry, I thought I had another ten minutes, but I guess not. It seems like, as you got into the English Department, you did kind of get a sense of the voice that





were developing. What was the vision that carried you through to journalism? How did that take shape?

	O:	Well, because I’d been interested in writing and words, and I’d been writing in high school. I wrote our class song. I wrote some poetry. I was always interested in the written word, and performing, as well. By reading the literature, and writing papers, and creative writing, it just resonated with me that I loved writing. I began writing for the newspaper as a freelancer, doing movie reviews. One of the at that time fraternities would get the paper for that year where they would be able to assign people. I knew somebody from that Tau Epsilon Phi Jewish fraternity that had it that year, and he knew me. And he knew that I was in English, and he asked me to write. [Laughter] So I ended up doing these reviews, slipping them under the door because I wasn’t a staff person. But a friend suggested I apply to the Herald, and I wasn’t a journalism major but I could write. I had some clips here to show them that at least I could put words together. Then they gave me a test, on-the-spot writing test. So, the English department really allowed me to begin to express my writing in different ways, so I had some tools that I could bring that was able to launch me into a job.

	M:	Thank you. There’s a lot more I wish I could ask, but I think we’re out of time. So, thank you for joining me.

	O:	All right, thank you. [End of Recording]





	Transcribed by:	Krystal Dixon; February, 2017





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, December 4, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019