AAHP 124; Brown, Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 124 Clarence Brown African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Ronald LaFrance on September 3, 2010 58 minutes | 25 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. Born and raised in Tampa, Clarence Brown matriculated to UF in 1982 after John Boatwright came to his high school to recruit students. He describes some of his family’s history, and his experiences growing up in Tampa and experiencing the beginnings of integration and school bussing while seeing on television some of the more violent responses to the process elsewhere in the US. He describes his dismay with his dormmates at UF because of the lack of respect they showed the housekeeper, Ms. Katie. He also describes some of his adventures while attending UF. Mr. Brown’s first job at UF was at the Institute of Black Culture (IBC). He also describes participating in the UF Gospel Choir, Black Student Union, Student Government, and pledging Alpha Phi Omega fraternity. He explains some of what he finds most meaningful about being part of the Association of Black Alumni, and of UF Gators football games.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Institute of Black Culture]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 124

Interviewee: Clarence Brown Interviewer: Ronald LaFrance Date: September 3, 2010



	L:	Ronald LaFrance from the UF Oral History Department. I’m here interviewing- B:	Clarence Brown.

	L:	Clarence Brown. Let’s get started. I’d like to know when did you come to UF? B:	I started in the fall of 1982.

	L:	How did you find UF? What made you come here?



	B:	It was sort of that UF found me. I took the PSAT and that got a lot of interests out there. With universities and colleges sending out information, there were some scholarship offers. But nothing from Florida except the University of Tampa, which I didn’t want to attend. I don’t know when it was, but maybe sometime in senior year, John Boatwright showed up to my high school. This was totally unexpected because I went to a vocational technical high school. Most kids going to go to that, they’re not looking to go to college, they’re looking to go to work.

Notwithstanding that he showed up and sold it. I mean probably less than ten minutes and I was on my way. If not for John Boatwright showing up at Tampa Bay Tech, never would have made it.

	L:	I’m guessing you’re from Tampa? B:	Yeah.

	L:	You grew up there the whole time? B:	Born and raised.

	L:	Well you were born and raised in Tampa, do you have any siblings? B:	Yeah, Tampa is the home front. I have right now two sisters still there. L:	Do you still go back? Do you live there now?





	B:	Actually I work in Miami where I have a rental condo but I still have my home in Valrico which is just outside of Tampa.

	L:	Where in Miami?



	B:	Right on Flagler and Le Jeune. There’s like this brand new—Are you from Miami?

	L:	Yeah, I’m from Miami.



	B:	It’s like this brand new condo building they built right next to the Burger King. It works out. This weekend it was like leave work Thursday afternoon I get to go home and sleep in my own bed. Then I drive up here which is about an hour and a half from Tampa.

	L:	So what did your parents do for a living? Did they attend college?



	B:	No, actually first to attend. Father was basically a laborer worked as a longshoreman. By the time I had real memories he had already been hurt and was disabled. Mom for the most part was a laborer as well.

	L:	So how did you cope with your father being disabled?



	B:	It was interesting. For one reason or another, I was the only kid, I was the last child. I was the only one that didn’t go to kindergarten. To this day I don’t know why. But I spent that year with my father. He became what some people today might call a house husband. He was cooking, he was cleaning, he was doing all these things. It was a little weird because he wasn’t so much focused on me as he was on making sure he took care of everything for the overall family. It was different.





	L:	That’s interesting. You said you went to a vocational high school. What was your elementary and middle school like?

	B:	Elementary—I’m right at that age where by the time I was in second grade, Hillsborough County had started bussing. It was a strange time for a lot of us. On the evening news we would watch Walter Cronkite reporting the news. One of the stories I remember as a little kid was in Boston. You had all these angry people throwing things at buses, shaking buses. They had little Black kids on these buses. I’m like okay, now you want me to get on a bus. It was a little strange for a little kid to see something like that and realizing that could be you. The good news is that nothing like that happened. The first school I was bussed to was in an affluent neighborhood. It exposed me to some amazing things. One of the things was one of the parents. I never knew this from where I was ‘cause mom was working, dad was disabled, so we didn’t have a lot of parent involvement. At this school you did. The moms would come in and go on fieldtrips. That was pretty impressive and it had a lasting impression on me, as a matter of fact.

	L:	Was the school any way divided, racially, or was it pretty much a cohesive unit?



	B:	It was cohesive. I don’t think there was a whole lot of choice in it. From administration down I believe they made the most of it. I got no sense of them not wanting us to be there. In second grade as a matter of fact, I got hit by a car. I think it was second or third grade, so I missed a lot of school. When I went back to school they put me in like all these basic classes because they said I missed too much time. But the commitment they made to my mother was that they said if





I could show that I was up with the rest of the class they would put me in the appropriate level. I did and they did. In that regard I think it was a very honest relationship.

	L:	Let’s get to Gainesville. What was your first impression of Gainesville?



	B:	Oh my God, I was terrified! [Laughter] No seriously, I came from Tampa, a relatively large city. I went to a high school that had, I guess, a couple thousand of us were there. When I got here and my mother dropped me off, I’m like, “Okay what now?” I would say maybe for about thirty-six hours I was in utter shock. I mean shock being like: [Gasps]! I didn’t even eat. I was like so lost. I think when I met that first person, then I’m like, “Oh, okay.” Then the chain, that person knew this person. Next thing you knew we had a family in the dorm. I was a little bit more at ease then. Still couldn’t get used to all this in Gainesville. We were in a dorm with no AC.

	L:	Oh you were in Buckman?



	B:	No actually this was Rawlings Hall. Those fans just didn’t help so you spent a lot of time in the common areas that did have AC.

	L:	You said you lived in Rawlings, was that the only dorm you lived at?



	B:	I spent my fall and spring in Rawlings. I spent a summer at North. North was a co-op then. Then I went off campus. My last semester in school I spent a summer in Buckman Hall and Buckman at the time was a co-op with no AC. [Laughter]

	L:	I’m guessing you kind of enjoyed your time in the dorms or did you not enjoy ‘em?





	B:	Well probably mostly not. Freshman year in the dorm was just how I can best describe it? Unlike anything I had ever experienced. There was a lot of pent up frustration and anger in me that I would let loose on them. We had a housekeeper or custodian Katie. Ms. Katie I would call her. Coming from parents who were laborers, I looked at Ms. Katie like that could be my mom, that could be my aunt. What some of those guys would do, I wouldn’t want them to do that to my mother. I would get angry. I’d be after people, “You need to clean that up.” There was a whole lot of drinking. At that time we were grandfathered in, so at eighteen we could drink even though the law had already changed to twenty one. There was throwing up all over the place, just utter disrespect. Bathroom, oh my God, worse than a gas station bathroom. That part I didn’t really like so much.

The positive relationships is the family. By family, when we had friends that would come together we had sort of a communal cooking. One day I’m responsible for the entrees, somebody else is doing the vegetables. And we’d just pool all of our resources, go into the kitchen and come up with a fabulous meal. Where I come from that’s really how we come together, around a fabulous meal. Family sitting down together, eating together, talking about what’s going on in our lives. That was probably one of the best parts of the dorm, some of the relationships. I know I’m right in the middle of this but I really need to get to the business meeting. You’re going to be here today and tomorrow right?

	L:	I won’t be here tomorrow, but I should be here until like eight o’clock. B:	Okay well if we can finish that somehow just let me know.

	L:	Thank you for your time.





	B:	All right, thank you. [Break in recording]

	L:	Ronald LaFrance from the Oral History department I’m continuing the interview earlier with Mr. Clarence Brown. We left off mainly talking about the anger you experienced with the housekeeper being treated wrongly ‘cause the people would excessively drink. Want to take off from there?

	B:	Yeah, sure. In my dorm there was these—not just one person but a group of people that would do excessive drinking and with that sometimes maybe some throwing up all over the place and they would just leave it as if to say, “Katie will clean it up.” I thought that was totally disrespectful. I used to really get angry, and get on them, and literally try to get them to clean up behind themselves. Because I don’t think that was part of her job. That was probably the worst part of being in the dorm. The good part was that adopted family that you develop. When you can come together and do a meal together. Where one person may be responsible for the entrees, somebody’s doing the vegetables, somebody’s doing starches or bread or whatever. That kind of helped us grow together. A little sidebar that I just thought about, we had the opportunity to do group counseling sessions with some friends from the dorm that was pretty amazing. We were able to talk about some things where they had a chance to get some things off their chest. I think it was probably good for us all to hear.

	L:	Her name’s Ms. Katie right? Did you have a relationship with her outside of the dorm?





	B:	No, it was just her eight to five. I would see her either in the morning or in the afternoon. The thing I remember most is she’d just always have this wonderful smile. We would talk, and I’d talk about the frustration I felt when some of the kids that were just totally disrespectful. But no there was nothing outside our campus relationship.

	L:	Did you have any mentors like a teacher or anything like that? Or even other students that you followed?

	B:	No one that I would directly connect to or with as a mentor. I certainly had folk that I could rely on and go to. For example, my freshmen year, a young man he passed away several years ago, Lee Norris Rayam, who was from Orlando. For one reason or another, took a liking to me. I remember I was driving a friend of mine’s car, she worked at the union where I worked. I didn’t have a license and I was pulled over by the police. It was probably the most terrifying moment in my entire time in Gainesville. This officer literally got out his car and asked if he could see my license. I gave him either a state ID or student ID. The next thing I remember him say and there may have been some other exchanges, “Don’t you know I could take you to jail, boy?” This is like 1983 at that time. My response was almost automatic, “Yes, sir.” It just so happens, he was cool, he called the owner and told her she needed to come get her car and that this young man would be on his way walking back. This was at the Albertsons I don’t even know if it’s still there. It was a nice little walk that I was having to do. That was kind of a wild and crazy time for me. Now I forgot the original question.

	L:	Did you have any mentors?





	B:	So that was Lee Norris. Probably the one that I think most fondly of because when it was time for me to get my license so that I wouldn’t have to face the courts, he actually allowed me to use his car to practice. I went and got my license. That was the end of something that could have been a whole lot worse.

	L:	Do you have any more stories where you had run-ins with either police or other racial tensions?

	B:	I think that was the only issue I had with law enforcement. For me, believe it or not, my relationship the entire time I was here with campus police was stellar. I spent probably four years working on campus as a student. I knew them, I knew a lot of them. There weren’t any—at least from my perspective—there weren’t any issues. They had a certain relationship with students. If you were not doing anything elicit, illegal to bring attention to yourself, I don’t think you would have had a problem with them. In terms of racial tension, one of the things I remember most about that period of time was when we started talking about the foundation and their investments in South Africa. There was this cry around the country that you got to divest. As a group of Black students we did take up that charge to say that by participating in these investments in South Africa, you’re a part of or a supporter of apartheid. I think we had an administration that listened. I think history will show that the world saw the evil and the tragedy there. That was probably the one time we collectively as Black students really marched against the administration.

	L:	Did you take part in the protests against the naming of the O’Connell Center.





	B:	No, that was a done deal by the time I got here. As a matter of fact I didn’t even know what the issue was by the time I got here. As a matter of fact, when I got here we were calling it the O Dome. They still call it that right?

	L:	Yes. You said you worked here. Where did you work?



	B:	I started out at the Institute of Black Culture. Maybe there were some mentors there, too. Alma, I don’t know if Alma is still there or she retired, but the years I would come back she would still be there. She was like secretary, executive secretary, admin. The IBC is a part of student services?

	L:	Yeah.



	B:	I worked there for maybe the fall and the spring. I was what they called the night manager. Basically I was responsible for opening up the building and locking it for evening meetings. When they’d gone home at five, if we had an event going on at seven I had to have it open at seven. If it was over at nine then I closed at nine. I did that and it was a good chance to meet new people. As a matter of fact, Dr. Green, he was working there as an assistant of some sort. He was over the gospel choir. I remember him asking me a question: “When you go to church, do you go for the message or do you go for the music?” I’m like, “That’s a crazy question.” Then I thought about it. I knew enough about the word to appreciate it. I said, “I like to get the word when I go.” Then he started talking about the choir. He goes you should come out and try out for the choir. I remember that first trip to the music building. I walked in the door, “Oh my God.” It was a mess. There was yelling, there was screaming. It was so much negativity in there. I’m like, “What is this?” I thought this was the gospel choir. The meaning of gospel is





good news. There was no good news going on in there. I remember later on me and Dr. Green—I call him Dr. Green but I don’t think he had received his doctorate yet—Me and Mr. Green were sitting down and I told him I tried. He goes, “What happened?” I told him, “There was just too much confusion. I’m not used to being in that type of negativity. I don’t believe anything positive can grow out of it.” He goes, “Just chalk that up to some emotions running high.” I think it was about uniforms. They were trying to decide on uniforms. I said, “Okay I could chalk it up to that. I’ll give it another try.” I gave it another try and I stuck with it off and on probably the entire time I was in school. Dr. Green passed away while I was in school but we had some very interesting times in the gospel choir. I remember one such trip was to Atlanta. This church I think it was Salem Baptist. All-expense paid: travel, hotel, and food. We went to Six Flags over Georgia. It was just awesome. Before we got on their little flume ride, we all asked, “That water’s not gonna get directly on us.” We’re thinking a little bit would come over on the side of the log. They was like, “Oh no no you’ll be all right.” Of course they lied. You literally went under a waterfall so you got completely drenched. Here you have these sopranos and altos and tenors and bass totally drenched. I don’t know if you know this, but evening during the summer in Atlanta the temperature drops. At night it gets a little cool and we’re soaking wet. All the lemon, all the honey, and all the tea couldn’t get us ready for that performance the next day.

When we got up there oh my God we sounded horrible. I mean absolutely horrible. They talked about us. These Christian folk they talked about us bad. It was an experience nonetheless. Some of the things that may have been





happening in that church probably was even more egregious. This particular pastor—sometimes you don’t get as much message when you really need message, but you see all the glam, you see all the show, the big fancy car. I remember sitting in the back and this guy had to have a diamond so bright that when the light hit, it blinded the whole back row. It was just not a good feeling. I think our poor performance was just a combination of saying, “You know what? This is not the place.” To kind of give you the flipside of that is Church of God by Faith. I don’t know if they’re still over there on the eastside. That pastor, he used to tell everyone, “They’re not coming in here. They’re not coming in my choir stand. They’re a bunch of heathens.” To be perfectly honest with you, accepting Christ was not a prerequisite for being in the gospel choir. You just had to be able to carry a note. If you weren’t tone deaf you could participate. It’s a student organization. He had been saying that for at least a couple of years I had been here. Something must have softened his heart and he was going to allow us to perform. I think it was a Saturday night. A lot of us probably would have wanted to do something else on a Saturday night as opposed to being in church. We went there and we gave our best performance. I mean, we’re talking we can record this and make some money performance. The reaction in his church was just phenomenal. It’s amazing, I kind of draw the conclusion that in Atlanta, they welcomed us, they paid for everything, but they weren’t right and the performance just wasn’t right. But the Church of God by Faith they didn’t want us in there because they thought we was heathens and didn’t think we knew what





we were singing about. We went in there and we showed them that we understood that the words we said were the gospel, that it was the good news.

	L:	So you said you were involved in the gospel choir. Were you involved in any other organizations on campus?

	B:	I participated probably I would say on a limited basis with Black Student Union, student government, there was the choir. I think that was mostly it.

	L:	Did you join any fraternities?



	B:	Actually I pledged Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity. I participated with them maybe my last three or four years.

	L:	You worked and obviously participated on campus. How did that affect your schoolwork, were you able to balance it well?

	B:	Well I think the true question is you worked and participated in the activities but you were also a young college student so you wanted to hang out with friends on Friday and Saturday nights. You wanted to take road trips. It all had an impact. I think I’m the person I am today because of all it. I had to make that phone call to mom and tell her to send me some money and send it to Mississippi. I had to hear my mother say, “Baby whatchu doin’ in Mississippi?” I’ve been there. I was the one that had the chance to go to New Orleans and didn’t pay my rent, didn’t pay the phone, didn’t pay the light, didn’t pay anything. I was the one when I came back I was able to talk my way through the power company, the phone, I talked my way through everybody. I knew the landlord. He was from Tampa and we had become fast friends. I talked to him. As seriously as he could he said, “Clarence I understand this time. If this happens again I’m going to evict you.” He





let me know right then and there, although we’re friends, this is about business. So it was a powerful lesson. That was my first and last time trying to do something like that.

	L:	Did you have any interactions with the actual Gainesville community, like the residents here?

	B:	I would say yeah. Some of the people that worked at the university I would have a relationship with, which would cause me to know and experience more of the city. Even with the choir going to Church of God by Faith over on the eastside, so I was familiar with the eastside. Hanging out with friends they may have had friends in the Gainesville community. I remember when we first got here there was this, I don’t know if it was true or not. They told us that the local folk had a real problem with the college students. I kind of wanted to find out for myself. I would go out and experience the community. Mom’s Kitchen I think was on Fifth Avenue. Mama Lo’s I think was over on 6th Street maybe? I remember the Red Two Spot was this little club on Fifth. I never got a sense, no matter where I went, I never got a sense that there was this issue between us and them. Maybe I had blinders on but Clara, the one that loaned me the car that caused me to have that run in with the law. Oh and the reason I had the run-in was because she had a busted taillight. So it was her fault. Her and I we got along famously. We spent some time together outside of the campus. I got around in the community pretty good.

	L:	Did you see any tensions between the White and Black community here?





	B:	I don’t know that I knew where the White community was. [Laughter] I’m sorry, I knew Fifth Avenue. I knew student ghetto because I lived there maybe four out of the five years I was here in school. The student ghetto was like mostly students. But in terms of the community, I don’t think I ever ran into what was a White neighborhood. You know, like shopping, but I never really saw a neighborhood, hadn’t found my way there.

	L:	Did you ever see any types of problems between the students like racial problems between White students or Black students?

	B:	During my time in the [19]80s, not much. There was one incident that I thought was a little out of control. It was a young lady, a White young lady and a Black male. The reason I thought it was out of control was the way things happened. We have different perspectives, many of us. Some people believe that a threat is a threat is a threat. Others may believe that you can eliminate a threat without violence, even if you’ve been put upon. What happened was, for one reason or another, a conversation escalated to her slapping him. Maybe in a 1930s or [19]40s movie that would be acceptable, but it wasn’t acceptable at that time. We literally had to step in between. That was probably the most and the worst tension that I had experienced between the races.

	L:	So you personally had to intervene?



	B:	Oh yeah, a few of us. It was about to get ugly. Of course the prevailing thought at the time was, we can’t let you go after her because she did wrong. I was the first one to let her know that was dead wrong. You had no right no matter what was said, to strike out. That was an issue. It was probably—and it’s almost said to say





this, but it’s the truth—there was probably more tension amongst ourselves. And that is probably the saddest history to tell. That we didn’t get along, organizations. I’ll never forget the classic confrontation in Carleton Auditorium.

We’re there for some sort of step show. It wasn’t the invitation at that time it was just a step show with all the local Greeks. I think it was the Sigmas, came out and they were stepping with canes. Everybody was shocked ‘cause Kappas stepped with canes, not Sigmas. We were all sitting there mesmerized like okay what’s going on, but they were doing pretty good. Then they got to this one point where they took the canes, broke them across their thigh, threw ‘em, and basically said, “F—this,” and went into performing like they normally would. Well maybe a piece of cane hit a certain person maybe, but the mêlée afterwards oh my God. Did you see the fight with the Marlins and the Nationals?

	L:	Yeah I’m a big Marlins fan.



	B:	No seriously. It was so bad I think they threw us off campus. They wouldn’t allow us to perform on campus anymore. It was so ugly. That was the worst of the ugly. Another piece of the ugly was the Deltas came out. I have no ill will towards any of these organizations. I have friends and family in both, in all of them. The Deltas came out, they were getting ready to perform. They had a can of green peas with a pink ribbon around them. They were saying, “Whose peas are these?” They kept asking the question and, “I don’t know, ain’t mine.” Then all of a sudden, in unison they point to this one lady and said they’re her peas. A lot of people in the room thought that was funny. But the saddest part was there was this rumor on campus that she had been infected. For me that wasn’t so funny. It





would be funny if it was just a joke, but the fact that you have some knowledge that’s true and to want to make a joke about something like that. That’s why I say I think we had more issues amongst ourselves than I would say the White folk ever gave us. People talk about their relationships, I got a friend of mine, we went to high school together, and I tried to get her to come up here. And she told me, Audrey, bless her heart, she told me she said, “Clarence my relationship and my experiences up there weren’t like yours.” I’m like, “Okay we have different experiences.” She goes, “Every time I get to the sign that says University of Florida I break out crying.” I’m like “Huh?” All of our experiences are different but we could have treated one another a whole lot better than we did. We did not. I think history is going to show that the experience here was probably not unlike a lot of the things we continue to see in our community. I’m not afraid to say crabs in a bucket. We would rather pull folks down than try to build them up and that’s dangerous in any environment. But I didn’t let it deter me ‘cause I was on a mission.

	L:	Knowing how you feel about that how does it feel to come back to an event like Black Alumni Weekend?

	B:	I’ve been to every one. As long as there’s breath in my body I’ll come to the next one because I love the university. I have a profound love for the university. An example of it is I had a brother and a sister they were helping around my apartment. She was a very negative force of nature and he was a very positive. These were brother and sister maybe a year or two apart. She saw the degree hanging up and she just snarled and turned up her face. What is that? That





doesn’t mean nothing, just disparaging. I remember what I told her. I said, “You know what? That’s evidence of blood, sweat, and tears. Literally. I bled on this campus. I sweat on this campus and I shed a lot of tears on this campus.” It means that much to me. I’m not ashamed to share that with anybody. I work for Miami-Dade County. The typical person that works in the county, we’re talking about management, executive level have no profound recollection of their institution of higher learning. They end up saying things like, “Oh that’s nice that you care about your.” I don’t know that it’s the University of Florida. I think maybe it’s the individual. Maybe they weren’t the first one to go to college. Maybe they weren’t the one that was a child of two laborers, didn’t have a whole lot. Maybe I’m a little bit more appreciative for that reason. I don’t know, but I love coming here. I’ll continue to come here. The thing I regret most is a lot of the times when I come to Gainesville I can’t do the things that I want to do because everything is so quick. Like right now I have to run back to the hotel, I have to shower, gotta iron, get dressed, get back here. Next thing you know it’s going to be over and I’m going to be driving back to Tampa.

	L:	Do you feel now that you come back that everyone’s more united? That the Black alumni are more united now than you were in undergrad?

	B:	No, I think there’s still dissension. But I’m encouraged by the students. I’m encouraged by the opportunities the students have. When I was in school, we used to have to fight, beg, and threaten to get anything. Student Government has the purse strings. Back in the day it may have been four million dollars but now it’s probably huge and they fund all student organizations. We would go before





them and make a presentation on what we need for the upcoming year. “Your charter is not correct you need to update it.” Okay we’d come back. “Now you need to change something else in it.” There was so many roadblocks it was horrible. But now, at least my perception in talking to students, is that things are more readily accessible. You don’t get all the fight and the push back. That’s incredible. I think students here now are in a much better place. The only sad part is that a few years ago when I was talking to the student body president, he did indicate that there were still some of those same tensions. As a matter of fact either in [20]03 or [20]04 there was a Kappa that was attacked and hospitalized. When I heard that I’m like, “My God.” It’s sad. What does it do for us as a people? I think it sets us back. Some of us are coming together, trying to work together, trying to do better. It’s a whole lot that has to be done. Part of the concern is that when you come together for a weekend and you go back to Miami, they go back to Jacksonville, they go back to New York, or wherever.

There’s that lull of nothing happening. We’re going to try to do more, try to do better. We have folks here locally that can do more to continue to nurture the relationship with student organizations. So that when people leave this campus they’ll know that, “Okay maybe this is an organization that I want to participate with.” Right now I don’t think we’ve got to a point as an organization where we can say, “Hey this is what we’re going to do, and this is going to be our plan, and we’re going to see it through.” We’re still trying to work that out.

	L:	So did you personally get into these fights with the Student Government body? B:	I’m sorry?





	L:	Did you personally get involved with the Student Government while you were here?

	B:	Oh yeah. From working on campaigns to pleading with the senate to fund us. It was one of those things where there were cliques. If you were positioned accordingly, things would happen. Speaking of one of those political nights I remember we were in the Orange & Brew waiting for election returns. I ran into the guy who was the son of—remember the woman I was telling you about in elementary school when they started bussing?

	L:	Yeah.



	B:	The one that used to come by and take us out? I ran into that son. I told him, “You know what, you need to let your mom know she had such a profound effect on me and the man I became to be. I remember how kind she was to all of us.” He said, “I’m going to tell her she’s going to get a kick out of it.” That was my relationship with the other race here. The majority of the brothers in Alpha Phi Omega were not of my race. We are—our number one service priority was scouts. We would go out and work with them to get their service badges. The disillusion that was, because I was never a scout, the disillusionment was, “Wait a minute.” We would pitch their tents, we would set up their cots. All they had to do was come out with a sleeping bag and they were ready to go. Like, “Hey wait a minute.” I think that added to me having a very different experience here than others. Every Saturday I was up at the stadium if the Gators were out there playing. Some people didn’t go when they were in school and they aren’t interested in going now. That’s just their reality. Talk about strange memories, I





remember sitting in the stands against Mississippi State and it was freshmen year and it was raining. I don’t know if you remember this phenomenon called the jerry curl. The jerry curl was this thing that men and women would do to their hair to get it to curl up. They used to put this stuff in it called activator. I’ll never forget the rain hit that activator and this white syrup-looking stuff was running down my face. [Laughter]. I’m telling you it was funny I had to laugh at myself. But did I get out the rain? No, if they were down there playing I was going to stay in the rain.

That was my experience. So when I come back and the Gators are out there in the rain eight times out of ten I’ll continue to sit in the rain with them. There’s a couple of times I’ve been like wait a minute the hotel has a TV and they carry the game.

	L:	So when you’re here, like right now and coming back, do you feel like you’re excited to come back and accomplish something when you do come back?

	B:	Oh yeah. All you have to do is talk to the people around me. Talk to family, talk to the people I work with. They’ll understand and they can tell you about the excitement. I just rolled off the University of Florida Alumni Association Board of Directors, and it was a six year run from 2004 —2010 and just a tremendous organization. That organization makes these type of things possible. This building, these organizations, Gator Clubs, Back to College, the program that we do as an organization and plan. The Grand Guard, celebrating those that graduated fifty years ago. The Silver Society, recognizing those that graduated twenty-five years ago. You can’t be a part of that and just not love what you do.

Love being a part of the Gator Nation. My sister who never went to college that’s





just a hard worker. She’s in nursing, she just got her barber’s license, and she has her admin assistance license. She’s a Jane of all trades. She loves the Gators because it’s so infectious. Last year at the Florida State game this was Thanksgiving weekend.

	L:	I went to that game.



	B:	Okay. We were all sitting around the breakfast nook. Already eaten, just sitting around talking, drinking, having a good time as a family. It dawned on me, I have an adult nephew. I said, “Santo have I ever taken you to a Gator game?” He said, “Nah uncle.” I said, “You want to go to one Saturday?” He said, “Yeah.” I said, “Okay, you don’t mind driving do you?” He said, “Nah.” So it was his first game at the Swamp, a grown man now. It’s infectious. I want to take some of the credit, but it’s the atmosphere, it’s the energy. They really get a chance to appreciate it ‘cause they know when they come over, the house going to be splashed with Gator paraphernalia. Strangely enough there is a rule in my home, if you’re not cheering for the Gators you cannot cheer for the other side. To bring that point home to share with you some of my lunacy. I had a nephew that was staying with me for a period of time. I think we were watching Florida and U. Conn play basketball. He thought because he grew up in Connecticut he could root for U. Conn. He now knows he cannot. A friend of mine he was coming over for the SEC Championship game and he goes, “Clarence is it all right if I bring my girl.” I said, “Yeah but you need to make sure your girl understands.” Because some people don’t understand. Some people think that they can cheer and support the other team. I’m not that mature. I really am not. I’m okay with admitting it. I tell





people, “We can go to a pub. We can go anywhere in public. But you can’t come into my home and think you’re gonna cheer for the other team.”

	L:	To wrap this up do you have any regrets? Or is it mostly positives about the University of Florida?

	B:	My only regret is that I have not become independently wealthy that I can come back to Gainesville and get a few more degrees. If I could afford it, didn’t have to work, I’d go to school. I’d become a philanthropist supporting Gators everywhere. That’s my only regret.

	L:	You have mostly positive? B:	My experiences?

	L:	Yeah.



	B:	If you want to put it on a scale, ninety percent. There was that ten percent damn near killed me, but ninety percent. I’ve had the highs and the lows. Even during the lows, I remember I sat out a semester. But that semester I sat out I worked full time. So it became a blessing because now I was able to save money that I was going to need. Who knew? What happened was they didn’t have to pay me as a student which was like minimum wage. They were able to pay me as a regular employee so I got like a ton of money. Ninety percent positive. The people that had negative aspects I’m not quite sure. You asked me about the whole Black-White dynamic. There was one professor that, based on some of us his words, seemed to be a racist. It bothered a lot of the students in the class, didn’t faze me. You’re gonna run into those. As long as he didn’t affect my grade unfairly he could have whatever views he wants. So no not many regrets.





	L:	Is there anything you want to add to this interview? Any stories you want to tell me?

	B:	I probably can go on forever. I didn’t even think I could go on forever, now seriously, once you start. There was this one course we took it was called Interracial Communications and it was in the communications department. Don’t even ask me why I took the class other than somebody saying it was a really good class. The professor was Black but the majority of the students—

	L:	Were White.



	B:	Absolutely. The communications we had in that class, oh man. I mean, we really just let loose. I think it was good. I think it was healthy, not real negative.

Opposing views could get a little heated, but nothing real negative. It helped us understand the way we communicate. Now sometimes we communicate differently. Even some of us communicate differently depending upon our backgrounds. I think that was an interesting course that taught us how to understand the different dynamics in communication as it relates to the various races. I majored in history.

	L:	That’s my major.



	B:	You know what? Some of my best classes were not history. I mean Interracial Communications was one, Oral Interpretations was in theatre. Who knew? That class, there was a professor that they had just brought in. Beautiful Black woman, she had done something on Broadway. When I found out what the class was about I’m like, “Oh okay.” And I was so good at it. I’m like, “Wonder if I could make money doing this.” Of course you probably couldn’t unless you wrote





whatever you were interpreting. It allowed you to have an opportunity to meet great people and be in an environment where it’s really positive and not so negative. Being in the history department, I don’t know if you know this, but the first thing I ran into was tension. I had an aggressive advisor that basically wanted to shape my experience. I’m like, “No you’re here to advise.” He had a problem because, he thought it would be a problem because I wanted to focus on African history. One of my best professors was in African history. It was a White woman with blonde hair. But guess what? She spent more time in Africa than some Africans. Her perspective was fresh. I bought them. I’m like, “Look, there are certain requirements I need for the degree, I’ll get those done.” Outside of that what I decide I want to take, I’m gonna take. The chair of the department Jeffrey Jowells. Is Jeffrey Jowells still here?

	L:	I don’t think so.



	B:	Back when I was in school he was teaching Historical Methodology. They still have that course right? It used to be a prerequisite.

	L:	I don’t believe so. I don’t have to take that. Actually no they call that Practicum. B:	Okay, my experience with him was probably the most positive. I think he was

British. His expertise was in the Third Reich. He was so amazed to find out a Black kid from the inner city could be so in tune with the Third Reich. It was because he made it so interesting, he brought it to life. I don’t want him to get it twisted and think it was something I wanted to do as a career. I am all talked out, I gotta to get ready for the next part of this. Did you get everything you needed?

	L:	Yes. Thank you very much.





	B:	All right.





[End of Interview]



	Transcribed by:	Andre Evette



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez October 12, 2017