AAHP 643; Filer; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 643 Vivian Filer

Interviewed by Cristina Rodriguez on April, 4, 2019 89 minutes | 51 pages



Abstract: Ms. Filer begins this interview by discussing her childhood in Gainesville, Florida, with a particular focus on her experiences at Lincoln High School. She goes on to recount her experiences in schooling, eventually being one of the first black students at UF’s school of nursing. She goes over her experiences in the medical field at length, as well as her experiences in local civil rights groups such as Gainesville Women for Equal Rights. Also of note in this interview is her discussion of the Cotton Club and her church involvement, as well as the experiences of her parents working in Gainesville.



Keywords: [Gainesville, FL; University of Florida; nursing school; nursing; Lincoln High School; Cotton Club; Gainesville Women for Equal Rights; Santa Fe College; Civil Rights Movement]



Standards

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism

	SS.912.A.7.5 Civil rights tactics



AAHP 643

Interviewee: Vivian Filer Interviewer: Cristina Rodriguez Date: April 4, 2019



	R:	This is Cristina Rodriguez. Today is April 4, 2019 and I’m sitting here with Mrs. Vivian Filer in Pugh Hall in the reading room for the Bob Graham Center. Thank you so much for joining me today.

	F:	Welcome.



	R:	Can you please state your full name for me?



	F:	Really, really full name is Vivian Lee Washington Filer.



	R:	Okay and can you spell Lee for me? I know there are different spellings. F:	L-E-E. Uh-huh.

	R:	Perfect. So when and where were you born?



	F:	Actually I was born in Trenton, Florida. It’s about thirty-eight miles west of here, but my family moved here when I was about seven years old, so I spent all my life here, basically.

	R:	You would say that you grew up in Gainesville. F:	Absolutely.

	R:	Not Trenton.



	F:	That’s right.



	R:	Did you grow up with any sort of siblings?



	F:	Yeah, I’m one of five girls my parent had, so I have four siblings. R:	Would you like to tell me their names and ages?

	F:	Yes. My older sister’s Effie, and she’s passed away. She would be eighty-three.



And my sister Sarah Brown is seventy-six, and Karen Johnson is ten years younger than Sarah, so she’s sixty-six. And then Cynthia is two years younger





than Kay, so she’s sixty-four. Now if this ever gets published I’m trouble. [Laughter]

	R:	Because you’re telling all their ages. You were the second oldest then? F:	Second oldest.

	R:	So did you have any sort of responsibilities for your younger sisters?



	F:	Well I did, and all that I didn’t have, I took. My older sister was very laidback and very quiet, and I was never any of that. So I became self-appointed leader, but when my mother and my father worked, my older sister and I were responsible for the younger ones because—and one of my younger sisters I was sixteen years older and the other I’m fourteen years older, so they were really like our little babies. And then the one that’s four years younger than I am, she’s never stopped being the baby because she’s the baby for ten years so to this very day, she still is.

	R:	She stayed your younger sister.



	F:	Yeah but it was a lot of fun, yeah I remember taking them to the parades, but I’d gather up the nieces and nephews too because all the parents were working.

And we’d walk to University Avenue and then get a drink and go home. And that’s what they remember now.

	R:	Oh that’s so nice, so what kind of parades, like for which?—



	F:	The University of Florida. Uh-huh, the University of Florida Homecoming parade.



And that time, Lincoln High School.



	R:	Yes.





	F:	Had huge parades and if I wasn’t in the parade, I would take care of them. But I marched in a group with Lincoln, we were the drill team. So I marched in there for a while.

	R:	So you did all sorts of synchronized dances and that kind of stuff? F:	Yes, yeah in our way.

	R:	That sounds really fun. I’ve heard really great things about Lincoln High School. F:	Oh yes.

	R:	Do you want to talk about Lincoln at all?



	F:	What I’d really like to say to everyone is that my class, the class of 1956, was the last class out of the building that’s now the A. Quinn Jones building. When that building was our school, the downstairs floor was the elementary school, from first grade through sixth grade because that’s the way it was. It was elementary and high school. And then once you were in seventh grade, all of the classes were upstairs, so everybody was really excited about graduating from the sixth grade because then everybody was upstairs. Mr. A. Quinn Jones was my principal the entire time, a remarkable man. I never realized what a great man he was, but his wife was as great and she was my English teacher. Quiet, she never raised her voice, but she could get the guys who were rowdy in her class up to the principal’s office without ever raising her voice. And she was so kind. But she was excellent in teaching us. We studied Shakespeare one week, and African American prose and poetry another week, so our education was very broad. And that’s when I learned how to do the stories that everybody’s heard me do for sixty years. And I just give her all the credit for that.





	R:	That’s amazing that you remember her so fondly and so vividly. F:	Oh yes, oh yes.

	R:	Some people definitely stand out to us like that. F:	Yes.

	R:	So you graduated out of the original building and then they moved to the other campus.

	F:	Yes, the next class—class of 1957—went to the new school because then the construction was complete and they could enroll that class in September [19]56 and have them graduate [19]57.

	R:	Okay, so that was the new school that had the federal funding, right? The million dollars that they talked about at the symposium?

	F:	Yeah, yeah to build. Um-hm.



	R:	You already mentioned that you really enjoyed your English class, were there any other classes or subjects in school that really—?

	F:	We’re singers, my sisters and all of us, so I was always in the chorus. All of us were always in the chorus, so I loved music. But I also loved math, that later left me. [Laughter]. That love and that skill left me. But the competition at that time, I belonged to a self-appointed little group and our goal was to always be at the top of the list in our class on achievement. So we were the original National Honor Society for Lincoln High School, the group that I was in. We were always in competition, so every class had to be important. But I loved it, I loved English and I loved math and the music part, too.





	R:	Okay, cool. Even though your favorite subjects were math, English, and music, what brought you to healthcare then?

	F:	Oh that’s a story all in itself. When we lived actually on Southeast 8th Street, which is where my parents’ house is now, and it’s not far from the project that I have, the Cotton Club Museum. But there were two– one nurse who was the first African American public health nurse in Gainesville, Ms. Rosa Lundy. She walked the streets with her little nursing bag because she wanted to visit the mothers who had babies that had been delivered by midwives and she was making, well baby check on them. She’d carry her back and oftentimes she had diapers and change of clothes because sometimes she never knew what she’d find. I thought, “Oh I want to do that one day.” And then the second African American public health nurse was Ms. Nurse Maxim, Flossy Maxim. And they ended up not living more than two blocks from each other, even though they didn’t know each other when it all started out. And they were just up at the top of the line for me and I thought, “That’s what I want to do.” So as I grew up I’d get the dogs and cats in the neighborhood and try to make them my patients until they all ran away from me. [Laughter]

	R:	[Laughter]. Were they your nurse as well, did you ever go and see them?



	F:	No, I didn’t but I was able to be in situations when they visited other homes and things to see what they did. And I think I was just thrilled that they had these beautiful blue uniforms on and the little cap and the medical bag in their hands and I knew that wherever they went, they were going to help somebody. So that was really important to me.





	R:	Do you remember any other African American or Black nurses or doctors? Like maybe Dr. Banks or?—

	F:	Oh yes. Dr. C.W. Banks was an excellent physician to begin with, but he was a very caring person because Alachua General Hospital was the general hospital here and it was very segregated, of course. All of the patients that were Caucasian or any other nationality except African American, they were placed on a floor that corresponded with their illness. Like the medical surgical floor, if you were there for surgery or something medical, and then the children on the pediatric floor, their mother was on an obstetric floor, you know, those things. If you were African American it didn’t matter why you were there, all of us were placed on a long hall on the second floor in a room as long as this or longer, bed by bed by bed, one side of the hall was women the other side was men. And so it didn’t matter why you were there, so laboring moms and all of that were in the same room. And this was on the second floor, no air conditioning, and the boiler room was under. So I remember the sad situation of my sister that I was sixteen years older, and she had came home and Dr. Banks had instructed my mom how to take care of her skin because it was so hot in there. She had gotten all these little blisters on her face. But he was so kind, he realized the trouble that some people had getting healthcare and he was an excellent surgeon I hear. I’ve heard doctors profess that. Doctors have said what a great instructor he was and how much they learned just by being in the operating room with him, they did that at one of his ceremonies, and I thought that was great. And one other incident with him that I think is remarkable. There was a baby born that needed an incubator





and there was not one there, and Dr. Banks purchased an incubator for that baby and left it there. So he’s at the top of the list for me in terms of caring people. I learned a lot from him, too.

	R:	He really seemed like an incredible, incredible person. F:	He was, yes.

	R:	And physician, of course. So doubling back to school, sorry. Once you finished high school, was college always on your mind?

	F:	Always on my mind but not always accessible. I went through school during segregation, so there was no college here in town. The closest one, Brewster College, was like a training program—it wasn’t a college actually—for nurses, and that was in Jacksonville. So I started to be a maid at age fourteen. I worked after school every day and on Saturdays and then when I graduated and got married, I worked as a nursing assistant. That was my first healthcare job. And that was at Shands Hospital on the pediatric floor, which was the seventh floor at that time. Well actually I worked at Tacachale, it was Sunland Training Center, now it’s Tacachale. And then I became pregnant with my second baby, and at that time they wouldn’t let you work out there. There was something they said would mark the baby, would cause some disability or something to the baby. So I had to stop work and deliver my baby and he was a little premature, so my husband wanted me to stay home until he was a year old. And I’ve never ever, ever stayed home a whole year without working. And I tried, I really did try, but by the time he was six months old, that was all I could take. [Laughter]. So I applied to Shands and they hired me as a nursing assistant there. So I worked ten years





night shifts so I could be home and do all the things my boys were doing, because I had two boys. And then at that time, the dean of the College of Nursing was Dean Dorothy Smith, who is an icon of a nurse in her own right. Has written a lot, very innovative, very forward-thinking in all the things she did. And they often sent nursing students up to the seventh floor and they took care of babies, we took care, “we” being the nursing assistants. And so I had an opportunity to work with them and to show them things that I’d done. And during rounds—they had what’s called nursing rounds—they bring everyone in and present a case. And sometimes the nursing students would want me in there. So I knew Dr. Smith better than some other people because of that relationship. And then at one nursing rounds they were presenting a baby and they wanted a song, and so my sisters and I are the Washington Sisters and we sang. I’ll never forget that and they put it in the newspaper, our song, I don’t remember all of it but he was in traction because he’d been in an accident. We were all standing around the bed and my sisters were singing, “Pulling some ropes around my bed, and I can’t move except for just a little bit, I’d really like to split.” [Laughter]. So they recorded that.

	R:	That’s so cute.



	F:	So then I became, not a friend, but an actual acquaintance. So the nurse, Dr.



Smith, when they integrated the University of Florida—and that was about 1970s or [19]69, [19]70s—she said to me that if I wanted to come to college at the University of Florida that she thought they had some sort of scholarship. But in the meantime, Santa Fe College opened here as a community college in 1968,





and I was so thrilled because they opened integrated. So I worked nights and took classes during the day, and slept sometimes. [Laughter]. But at the time I got that message from Dr. Smith, I was maybe nine credit hours short of graduating. And here this was April and she was saying I could get in in June and September, I thought “Oh what am I going to do?” But the Santa Fe College ran summer sessions: A term and B term, and it was quarter system, so you could really punch in a lot. I had to convince every dean there that if they let me do that that I could do it, and I did and I got through and was ready for September to come into the nursing program at the University of Florida.

	R:	Oh that’s great. So you were working as a nursing assistant and then you were taking classes, so just sort of prep classes for nursing school?

	F:	No no, for my AA. R:	For your AA.

	F:	You had to have an AA degree to go for a Bachelor’s Degree. So I graduated, I have an Associate of Arts from Santa Fe, and that’s how I became. But I had to get the prerequisites done, too, because I had to take micro and all of those things. And I did it as an independent study because I couldn’t find a class in that short period, so here I am looking through these things growing and trying to figure them out under the microscope, it was something. But I passed. [Laughter]

	R:	Yeah, that’s incredible! You essentially made your own microbiology class for yourself.

	F:	That’s right. All by myself.





	R:	So nursing assistant, you don’t need a degree for it, so you were working and also then earned your AA.

	F:	Right, right right.



	R:	What was it like coming to UF so soon after it was integrated?



	F:	It was not good. Here’s where I was: African American, older, working full-time, and taking care of my son. That’s so diabolical to the regular nursing student at University of Florida, who is a step up on all of those things. So in class, it was very difficult to keep up. Along with that was the fact that I didn’t have the science classes, all of them that those students had. So I had to really, really get a lot of tutoring and spend a lot of midnight hours in the library. And just studying, just trying to make it. And I had great instructors though. I really have to say they went overboard to try to help me and to suggest things and to mentor. So I was able to graduate in 1970 with my bachelor’s in nursing.

	R:	Okay, so when did you start at the school, what year? And then what year did you finish?

	F:	I started in 1970, graduated in 1972.



	R:	Oh okay, wow so you did it right in two years. Do you remember any of the names specifically of some of those professors who really helped you out?

	F:	Well that might come to me before we finish. [Laughter] R:	Okay.

	F:	And they’re vivid in my mind but their names are not there. R:	That’s absolutely fine.





	F:	Yeah, Audrey Herbitt, Audrey taught ob and gyn, she was one. And oh there are some others. And three of them are still active as adjunct, but I hope I can remember their names, okay.

	R:	Okay, no it’ll come to you. F:	Okay.

	R:	So once you finished your program in nursing, now you were certified, you were an RN. I was recently at the Cade Museum—

	F:	Oh. [Laughter]



	R:	And I saw a little video of you talking about Dr. Cade. So when did you end up working with him?

	F:	See, I want the story really straight. I did not do all the things that Phoebe Miles thinks I did. I tried to get it straight, but she is so enamored with that story. On the pediatric floor, we had babies that were dehydrated. Not to the degree that they would need intravenous fluid, they could still have fluid by mouth. But the only fluids we had to give them by mouth—that were clear liquids considered—were Coca-Colas. That was all we had. What we actually did was take a little sugar, put it in the Coca-Cola and let it fizz away—that would fizz all the fizz away—then feed it to the babies. And they endured that until they finished their bout of whatever they had, diarrhea or whatever that was. But when Dr. Cade started working in his group with the formula for what became Gatorade, they also brought that formula to the floor, to the seventh floor. We didn’t know really what it was at the time, but we received it in gallon jugs and when babies were dehydrated, the doctors would order those babies to have that fluid because it





had electrolytes in it. That’s why we were using Coke, because it had some but very limited. Certainly his formula had all of those, and so the babies were able to rest their gut and survive. He’d come up late at night and check on them and he was just always a nice, easy person. He just roamed around and see what was going on, on the floor. And so I didn’t have a really active association with him, it’s just that knowledge.

	R:	Okay, I was just wondering because I had seen the little video of you talking about the babies.

	F:	Yeah, and so when I met with Phoebe because she was planning the Cade Museum and I was planning the museum that I just cut the ribbon on.

	R:	The Cotton Club?



	F:	Uh-huh. And so we got together and we were talking about it and I said, “Well you know, when I worked as a nursing assistant, we fed the babies that formula.” Oh and that just blew her away, because she hadn’t heard of that part of her daddy’s work. I haven’t anything big and great with that, but she just did that for me.

	R:	But that’s still a really cool story that it just happened at a time when you were still working with the babies. Sorry, just to backtrack, I just wanted to ask about Dr. Cade because it came to mind. Once you were out of nursing school, you were still working?—

	F:	At the same floor, pediatric, um-hm.



	R:	At the same pediatric place but now you were an RN. F:	An RN.





	R:	So what kinds of responsibilities did that come with?



	F:	Well first thing, I became nurse clinician, at that time. My duties were to follow two different groups of doctors. One was at the hematology, the doctors that did all of the kids that had blood disorders, and the other was the surgical group. So when they made rounds on the floor, I made rounds going bed to bed with them, and I’d jot down things that they said they wanted different or I’d encourage the nurses, and they’d ask me, so that was my duty. And I worked in the clinic when those patients came in to follow them from clinic to the floor and all of that. So it was a day job and it was a busy job and I got to meet a lot of really neat people, but I really didn’t like it a lot. It just, I’m a bedside nurse.

	R:	Yeah, you were just walking and jotting notes.



	F:	That’s right, that’s right. So then I asked to go back to floor nursing, and I was night nurse 11-7 on the floor. It was great, I worked with some of the same people that I’d been nursing assistants with and they were very helpful and it was a whole big camaraderie sort of thing. And I worked there for two years, on that floor, and one morning one of the faculty members from Santa Fe’s nursing program came over and said she’d heard how good I was in peds and they needed a pediatric instructor and would I come teach. I said, “Oh no, that is not nursing, I am not leaving the bedside.” And then so two days later the other nurse who had been in the NICU unit there but now was teaching, Ellen Womba, she came and had breakfast with me. And Ellen said, “Well Vivian you know, aside from being home with your children, the things that you think are important and near and dear to your heart in the nursing of children, you can teach that.”





So I became I teacher of that. If you ever see it in my students, they’ll tell you that yes, I did hold and love the baby and I sang to the baby. At that time we didn’t let parents stay, so here I have these babies in incubators and all over that needed touching and needed caring. They were developing the research on how important that was. But I always tell my students, “If you can’t take them out, you can put your hand inside and touch them and sing to them.” And they’d say, “Vivian I can’t sing.” I said, “Well the baby won’t know.” [Laughter]

	R:	They just need a voice. [Laughter]



	F:	“And I won’t tell them.” And so that, and if they cause pain, as in a shot, the last thing they needed to do was hold and love the baby because that’s what the baby’s going to remember, the last thing. And so they were all over the place, the Santa Fe graduates, because we put out hundreds. So I love going in a hospital and seeing, “Oh you were my teacher.”

	R:	That must be really cool. F:	It’s cool, it’s very cool.

	R:	What kind of songs would you sing to the babies in the hospital?



	F:	[Singing] John Jacob Jingleheimer Schmidt, and “On Top of Old Smokey,” it’s soothing [singing] On top of old smokey. And I sang that a lot with them, just whatever. And I didn’t care what they sang, as long as they were making a song. My sisters and I, when my first granddaughter was born, they allowed us in the delivery room and we sang to her and she was just a few minutes old. [Laughter]

	R:	That must have been very special to have that experience. F:	It was.





	R:	To be able to sing for your new granddaughter. F:	Uh-huh.

	R:	I’m trying to think of some other stuff I want to ask about. Relating still to the nursing, what about the Greater Gainesville Black Nurses Association?

	F:	Oh yeah, I love talking about that. I wasn’t aware that there was such a thing as a national nursing association for African Americans because the American Nurses Association was for White nurses, and they were not letting Black nurses in. But there was a Black nurses association that was not as involved, not as national I guess it might’ve been a statewide. But women that were interested in sharing and gathering and doing all those things gathered in I think it was Washington, I don’t really know the story that well. But I heard about them having conferences in [19]84, and my school sent me. When I learned about it my boss was Gerry Green, with a “G,” and she was just thrilled that there was something that I could go to get CEUs and learn things to bring back. So I started to go to those conferences, and when I went to several of them I realized that there was another nurse from Gainesville and I saw her every year. So we got together, her name was Voncea Brusha. And so then Voncea and I decided after we had attended so many years, that we should have a local chapter here in Gainesville. So we were the founders of that chapter. We gathered the nurses together, they have all the guidelines you have to follow in order to be considered a chapter, and then we were given our certificate and all of that at a big conference. We have this picture with all the black dresses and the things that we did. But our goal was to teach as much as we could about healthy living. And to help and





encourage people to learn more about the illnesses they suffered and the way they should be treating them. And how to approach the doctor and how to make sure they knew what was expected before they left. And how not to walk in the room afraid of the doctor, because we all do that, and everything goes out of your mind, and so we were trying to teach people how to engage so that they walked away with what they needed. And one of the things we did, we did the first huge health fair. It was the Gainesville Boys Club was then on Waldo Road. It was a great big open building and we sued that building. We had tabling all around the side, the complete side, front, back of all the services from the university, from the city, from the county. People tabled. And we had vendors there. I can remember it was just great. We did that for a number of years before it became something that other were doing and we scaled back. Now what we do is, ask small churches or small cities to invite us in and we bring what their need is. We try to do—they say, “We need this” and we try to put that together along with activities also. I was president for ten years and now I’m president emeritus. And the president is Voncea and she’s excellent, she’s excellent.

	R:	Yeah I was actually—I was talking to her to try to set up an interview with her as well but she also has a crazy schedule, you know. But your main goal was essentially health literacy in the communities. That’s incredible. That’s a really wonderful thing—

	F:	And it was way back. Yeah in the [19]80s. And then we were called on a lot to come do small forums or to be on a panel to do those sort of things. I served on—I’ve served on many boards. I don’t know if you read that. But I was on a





board at Alachua General Hospital, actually on the Board when Shands took it over and they were meeting to discuss services and what all. Too many. But anyway I was going through the sorrow and all the horrible feelings it was losing Alachua General because it was the county hospital. So many people were born there, so many people received care there. And it was just was—it was it. It was a gathering place. So now they have, they had a real big reunion last year and brought a lot of people together. I didn’t go but I heard it was really, really great. But health, health, and the health of folk. At my church I chair the healthcare ministry. Right now I’m coupling with three neighborhoods. We call them—I call them the Triad Neighborhoods. They’re the Black neighborhoods that surround Depot Park. So there’s Porters and Spring Hill and Sugar Hill. Well we’re buddying with a professor here at the University of Florida, NAACP, and my church to put on a huge health fair in May. And we want to address mental illness and mental health as our major concern but also be open to other things and plan other conferences and health fairs out of this one.

	R:	Okay, so what church is that?



	F:	Mount Olive African Methodist Episcopal. And I tell you all that because there are other Mount Olives that are primitive Baptist and all of that.

	R:	Oh yeah there’s so many. So—



	F:	But I love doing that. And out of my church it has a program—well because this person belongs to my church, Dr. Carolyn Tucker, who is a professor in psychology, she has this whole Health-Smart program there and of course she keeps us on our toes there. She has now infused that program into the whole





district of our church. They have a lab where they actually practice this and have people involved in Jacksonville. It’s a big, big push there and I’m on her board for that. I’m on all of her board it seems, but I love it that she respects me enough to ask me do those things and I love sharing. I think if I know something that will benefit others, I love to tell that. I love to fix things. Probably too much.

	Sometimes I’m called bossy but I don’t know why they would say that. [Laughter] R:	That’s not bossy, it’s assertive.

	F:	Ah okay, I got it. [Laughter]



	R:	Um wow, that was—you do so much. So I was wondering about the transition from Alachua General to Shands. I don’t know too much about what happened there, but—

	F:	Well, first of all Shands purchased Alachua General. Apparently Alachua General had some structural problems, maybe some financial problems and all. But the idea was that Shands was going to leave Alachua General where it was so it continued to serve the community in the capacity that it did because to get into Shands usually you had to referred by a physician. And Alachua General was open to the local doctors and they had a place to practice and to do surgery and all of those things. So, we went through this thing and we, two doctors and about and three of us community workers, three years before they closed that, saw the handwriting on the wall. And we started to meet to talk about to how to maybe forestall it or cut it out and what we needed to do in terms of organizing. We met and we met and we tried to get the commissioners to meet with them because we thought, “Well they need to be involved in this.” We could never set that up.





Dr. Black was one of those people and Dr. Buchanan was one and I was one, I can’t remember the other. But we never really pulled it off in conjunction with the community and the county and the city. So when they were really head over heels and ready to do it, they stared to have meetings, but they were too late then. So a day late and a dollar short, my mom would always say. So they couldn’t get it done. So then it—what it did was to throw our local doctors into that system and I’m not sure how they survived in there but I think some people may have left I don’t know. Because I didn’t have a physician at that time that was involved in that transition. But just think about it. All of a sudden they’ve gone from seeing their patient at their office at the hospital through their operation and back at their office for post-op because that’s what local healthcare was. And then they went through a teaching hospital which does all of those things well but has a different paradigm altogether in terms of how you get in and all of that. And now Shands has tried to evolve into a more user friendly place then it was when they started, so I do think they have develop some new strategies that are patient-friendly.

	R:	But definitely initially they were not there for the patients. They were there for the students of the University of Florida.

	F:	And if you weren’t referred, if you weren’t referred you weren’t—but I as a nursing assistant took care of some things I will never see ever again. I remember the first day that I took care they had Marfan’s disease. You know what that is? That’s, they’re real long.

	R:	That’s the connective tissue.





	F:	Yeah. No, well yeah ‘cause they’re so long. And I held this baby. Three month old baby, you know and he’s this long because already he’s growing. I always tell folk that I’m pretty sure that Abraham Lincoln probably had that. You see, how he’s gaunt.

	R:	I think so, too, you see his hands and his knuckles, his joints. F:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think he probably had that as well.

	R:	Okay so. I don’t—oh my gosh there’s so many different things I wanna ask about. F:	Well in the middle of all that I have to tell you, I mentioned Doctor—I mentioned

Ms. Frederica Jones. My English teacher. At the time, we celebrated Black History week. WRUF radio would give us fifteen minutes to have something on air about Black history. Along with whatever they were presenting, my instructor Ms. Jones let me go on to do one of the poems that I had done since that time until this day. And I turned them into stories so they actually are poems but so I do stores poetically told. I’m still doing some of the same ones. Like, “Little brown baby with the sparkling eyes, come to your poppy and sit on his knee. What you been doing sir, making mud pies? Look at that bib. You’s as dirty as me. And look at that mouth. That’s molasses I bet. The bees are catch you and eat you up yet, being so sticky and sweet. Goodness lad.” And it goes on and on. This is a daddy talking to his son and he goes on and it’s an African American folk language, which is another story all in itself. It’s not poor English, it’s a folk language. But I do standard English and those pieces. But that became a big part of my life. I at one time covered all the schools in the county. Doing African American Black History Month now. The teachers would schedule, they’d





schedule me a year in advance. And now I see kids who—when I did that piece I’d set them on my lap to look in their face—and now they have children. Now their forty and fifty, sixty years old and they say, “Ms. Filer, I sat on your lap.” [Laughter]

	R:	So Mrs. Jones, what school was she a part of and what year was it?



	F:	This was my high school teacher. My high school English teacher. She’s the wife of Mr. A. Quinn Jones.

	R:	Oh okay, okay. I was not making the connection.



	F:	Yeah, that’s right. She played piano and she taught English, oh she was just great.

	R:	Do you still perform for elementary schools?



	F:	Oh yeah. I perform everywhere. I just finished down in Tallahassee at the Riley Museum. My sisters and I went to be a part of that and to sing. We do three part harmony. A cappella. So we’re on a video that the women’s liberation movement, they were making a video. We sang for them in [19]97. They recorded us. Now they’re using that music as background. We did background for a local movie at one time. We just like to do it. Now I forgot what your question was. I’m sorry. [Laughter]

	R:	Oh it was just asking if you were—if you still performed at the schools.



	F:	Oh yes at the schools and at festivals and fairs and churches and colleges. I just did the commencement address for Santa Fe College in December.

	R:	That’s really cool.





	F:	Yeah. And one of the the—when we—at one point in time there was one piece that I do that’s about going to college that I probably had done for every college and university professor in Florida. Because as Dr. Tyree, who was our president, as he met with different folk he, he’d want me to come over and do this piece and it’s in African American folk language but it’s so encouraging. And it— the author is unknown but it says, “I been sending you to college now for six or seven years. Since the morning that you left me I been shedding bitter tears. But I thought of that old saying, ‘sunshine’s comes behind the storm.’ So my young man, when you finish, you’d best bring that college home.” And it goes right on, right on, right on until it gets—but I love it, I love it.

R:  Do you want to perform it for me? F:  Well you wanna finish that? Okay. R:   Yes, I really, I really like that.

	F:	“I been shivering in the—I been, I been shivering by the washtub. And I been sweatin’ in the fields. Many times I had to borrow and I almost had to steal. But I held onto my patience. Beat them soap suds into foam. All the time my heart was sayin’, ‘he’s gonna bring that college home.’ I got food enough for winter. Plenty clothes to keep me warm. So you trot on off to college then next June you bring it home. Don’t you mind these folks here talking they ain’t half as good as you. As theys bound to laugh and good folks ‘cause that’s all theys knows how to do. So next spring, when the dogwoods blossom and the bees begin to swarm. I’ll be waitin’ for to see you, when you bring that college home. I don’t mean bring home the buildings or to wreck them good folks’ place. Bring home Christian education





and that high-toned college grace. You’d best grab them ‘fessors’ habits. Hold ‘em tight through wind and storm. Then when you get your diploma, take ‘em all, bring ‘em home. Show the folks here that you got ‘em by the speeches that you made. By the specs that you be wearing and the way your coattail shake. But don’t get above the people. Settle down and don’t you roam. Be a light in your own village. Be a college here at home.” That’s it. And the author’s unknown. But the message is—

	R:	Wow. When did you—where did you find the. . .find the poem?



	F:	I found it when a young man presented it at a portrait contest that my church participated in. And this was back in [19]80s. And he did it, he did a marvelous job and I said, “Please let me have a copy of that. Please!” and I started to do it and I have done it ever since. Now the fallacy involves here on the other end is that somebody has claimed it as something they wrote and they didn’t know that because the writer’s unknown. Even, I think it’s even on Amazon. And it’s incorrect in the way it’s printed so, you know I feel so—one girl put my piece, what she thought was what I said, and it was wrong. And I just—I feel so, that we need to be so true to history. I am a history tell it like it is person. So I don’t like the filtering. I don’t like to change it and I don’t like to make it. ‘Cause whatever you do to it is what’s gonna be passed on. And you don’t want to pass on the incorrect information. So I try to make sure I give it and if I don’t know it all, I want to make sure you know that this is my version and there may be another one.





R:  Yeah, no, that’s all—I think that’s super important too. You definitely shouldn’t be taking and reworking something that was beautiful on its own. In what ways were they changing it?

F:  Well, the language—it’s African American folk language. R:  Making it into proper?—

F:  Well some hadn’t done it properly, they just don’t know how to write the folk language and how to say it. And they’ve left out parts and some have used Standard English. Which is another whole story. You don’t have all day.

R:   I have all day. [Laughter]



	F:	But I—I’m concerned that we’ll lose the essence of what I grew up with in terms of the beauty of caring about our heritage through music, through prose and poetry. One of the things I google and I hear a song that we sang in African American folk language that’s all Standard English now. And they’ll never know that the writer wrote that—Joshua Fit the Battle of Jericho and De Walls—D E— De Walls—and they’ll make it all D-E. See the folk language in some parts was done in such a way to accommodate the language from six countries from the continent of Africa and the language English. Seven languages that the people who were coming, being brought, stolen from Africa and brought to America had to find a way to talk to the plantation owners. Now listen, they all had their own language and there was Standard English. So what they did—and I don’t do all of this but I like doing part of it, because my friend did her dissertation and it’s on file here because she graduated here, Gerry Scott. What she found out was that they all use “DE” the “D” sound for “TH” sound because “TH” didn’t exist in any of





those languages. So “dat, dees, and dem” is folk language. “th” on the end of the word was dropped off and the “f” was used. “Mouf” and “bof”. So I do all that before I do the poems or stories in folk language because I want people to really get the history behind it. And so wherever you hear or see them, they’ll say, “Oh that’s what she said.” And you know, I don’t give it as the essence of all the translations but I do know that for the research that these researchers had in place this is what they found out. And so I use it.

	R:	I’ve never thought of it like that before. I’m not really into linguistics but that makes a lot of sense because they did have to adapt and find a way to communicate.

	F:	That’s right, that’s right and you gonna hear it. In all the movies and all the everything, you hear—you’re gonna hear it because that’s what, those are the words that they could put together and the way they use it. And then they passed them down four hundred years. We’re coming up on four hundred years. And so they pass it down generation to generation to generation.

	R:	Orally.



	F:	Orally.



	R:	Spoken.



	F:	Spoken.



	R:	Just like this.



	F:	Yes. [Laughter]



	R:	That’s why oral history is so important.





	F:	So important. It is. And it love Paul Ortiz for what he’s doing. And capturing a lot of it.

	R:	So, I’m just very touched by your whole dedication to not only—to just caring for people both culturally in terms of your performances and your singing and your story telling, but also your healthcare. . . I’m trying to figure out, ‘je ne sais quoi’, you know. [Laughter] But I actually want to touch back and see, when did you and your sister start singing in a group? And start performing for people?

	F:	Well when my oldest sister, Effie, and I were—I’m four years older than Sarah, Effie was a year older than I was. So Effie and I were both in school together. So we were in the chorus together in elementary and high school. Sarah came along five years later and actually Sarah didn’t get in the chorus. The teacher sent for her. She said, “Isn’t your last name Washington?” she said, she said, “You need to be in here.” And it turns out that Sarah has perfect pitch and was the best alto in the whole world. The music teacher would send her, she says, “Sarah, go sit with the basses and get them back on note. Go sit with the tenors,” and she could do it all. So that’s why we never use instruments. But since I’m ten years older—I’m fourteen years older than Kay. Sarah’s ten years older than Kay. We didn’t have the third voice until Kay was born and became old enough. So we really didn’t start this until probably she was ten or eleven. But was she was in kindergarten she did her first solo on the stage at Williams Elementary. I can just see her now. She had a little yellow dress it had a plaid top. She had a one—I tell her this all the time—she had a big plait up top and she’s standing up with her hands behind her back singing her song. She has the most gorgeous voice. So





she does weddings and all of those kind of things. I tell them, I’m really not a voice, I’m the—I carry the melody. ‘Cause they don’t trust me with anything else. ‘Cause when we’re doing the melody they will take a piece another note and go up and down and all that. I stay with the melody. Because if I ever get off of it I may never get back. [Laughter] but I admire them for that.

	R:	But your part is very important too. F:	That’s what they say. [Laughter] R:	I play violin so. . .

	F:	Oh okay.



	R:	But I usually don’t play first violin, so first violin is the melody and second violin tends to be the harmony, the supporting. So we take the themes of the first violin and we move with it. But it’s not on our own. I think it’s incredible what improv and just being able to come up with harmonies and all sorts of things.

	F:	Oh they do that. They do that. They do that. So— R:	That started just because—like, through chorus. F:	Through—no actually through church.

	R:	Through church, okay.



	F:	Yeah, I always sang at church. R:	Which church?

	F:	Mount Olive, same church. Mount Olive AME. Uh huh. And we started being on programs and then our choir director have us going different places. And we started to travel around through them. And people heard about the Washington Sisters. That’s what we do.





	R:	Has a nice ring to it. F:	Yeah, thank you.

	R:	I’m sure your parents were very proud of all you for doing that. . .



	F:	Oh my dad was in seventh heaven. Oh he said his girls—he had five daughters.



Can you imagine, he was the only man in the house? [Laughter] But he was a terrific dad. In fact, we all say we were his favorite daughter. Now that takes a lot of ingenuity to do that. The difference of it all, was I really was his favorite daughter. The others just thought they were. [Laughter] But he was great daddy.

	R:	What did your parents do for a living growing up?



	F:	My dad was a mechanic and way back before the cars were so automated as they are now, he could in his sleep take apart any car and put it back together. In fact I could remember, we lived in Trenton, alright, we lived here. And late at night somebody’s car had stalled. Wherever, they’d come and get my dad. He’d get up out of bed and go get their car started. And he did that for all the time and he worked as a mechanic from one Broken Motors Company was downtown where the old voter registration office was. I remember him working there for a number of years. Then he worked at Comper’s at night, after he worked there.

But it was hard, it was hard. Then my mom was a chef. She cooked at the College Inn, which was on University Avenue going west from the Swamp. That whole set of buildings there, all businesses, right in the middle of that was something called the College Inn.

	R:	So it’s near where like St. Augustine, like the church?





	F:	I think it’s a pizza. No, no. this side. Between the church and the Swamp. That whole group of buildings. In fact the College Inn was one of the first places that was boycotted by the students with Dr. Chalmers, Dr. David Chalmers. His students were—at the time, now my mother’s in the kitchen cooking. But she told us we couldn’t come. You know, she did those kind of things. But I was a civil rights worker so I was involved in a lot. But the thing of it is, that my mom worked there for all those years and at the time there, she didn’t have transportation. So she would walk—I don’t know if you know where the Cotton Club is, Depot Park.

	R:	Yes, I know where Depot Park is.



	F:	Okay, well it’s four or five streets beyond that. R:	That’s all the way on Main.

	F:	Yeah. Yeah. So my mom would still walk to Eighth Street from there. But she’d walk all the way from College Inn on University Avenue to home at night. ‘Cause sometimes the bus didn’t run. And my dad was either working at Comper’s or he was going to school at night on the GI bill that was called. Because he didn’t have his high school diploma and he was wanting to work on that. The problem was, there was no place in Gainesville that would accept Black veterans in schools.

	R:	That’s crazy.



	F:	So he had to—we got his washtub ready with those tin tubs and his dinner. And he come home and eat and bathe and get dressed and get his book and sit on the corner two blocks away and wait for his friend who was also doing the same





thing. And they’d drive to Putnam County to go to school at night. Isn’t that something?

	R:	That is something. What school did they go to in Putnam?



	F:	I don’t, don’t even know the school, no. But there was a school there that had a night class that would take them in.

	R:	What was he studying to earn?



	F:	Just to get his high school diploma.



	R:	Just his high school diploma. Wow. So he served in the military?



	F:	Yes, World War Two. He was at Iwo Jima and Nagasaki, he used to talk about. I remember little dishes he used to send to us from over there. So yeah, he’s proud of that.

	R:	So he served before you guys were born then. F:	No, no I was born in [19]38.

	R:	Wait, you were. . . [Laughter] You graduated in [19]56 from high school. Oh sorry.

	F:	My sister was born in [19]37. I was born in [19]38. Now Sarah was born right after the war. She was born in [19]43. Uh-huh. And then the others. [Laughter]

	R:	So what was like for your family for him to be?—



	F:	Well we missed him a lot. And my dad was an older man that went into the army because he was in his thirties. When he was older and I was in charge of his healthcare I’d take him to his visits to the doctor. My sister helped too but I’d go a lot because I knew what they would talk about. And he was a storyteller. I think that’s where I got it from. He loved to tell stories. At church he had the young





people sitting around there just waiting for Mr. Levi to tell stories. But one—I’ll just tell you one of his and I’m gonna let you go. But he said—one day he told me, he said, “You know, when uh, the soldiers were called up to serve, they had, they called a man that couldn’t see, was blind. And a man that had one arm.” And I said, “Daddy, how did they serve? What they gonna do with those men?

That was terrible.” He said, “No baby, all the soldiers had to have water. So one man could pump the water and the other could tell him when the bucket was full.” [Laughter] it wasn’t true he was just telling—and I was all into it. Yes, oh my god, Daddy. He had a lot of those.

	R:	Oh he was messing with you.



	R:	So he would tell funny stories like that. Like always try to get you. F:	Yes.

	R:	So he would tell stories for everyone in the church then?



	F:	Well the young people would gather around him. He actually joined church as an older man. He didn’t—my mom and I took us to church all the time. Now we walked across the street to church in my later life. But later my daddy joined and he loved it and the children loved him. Some of the kids still talk about—they’re adults now, but they talk about that.

	R:	Okay, so, we covered church, your parents, what about your grandparents on either side?

	F:	Well I didn’t know anything, still don’t, about my dad’s parents. He was the thirteenth child and all of his other siblings were older and gone I guess. Well we met an Aunt Flossy, was the only one we knew. There may have been some





other people when I was younger but I don’t remember them. My mother’s parents were from Augusta, Georgia. When my mother moved here in the—I guess in the [19]30s. Guess my grandmother and those moved from Georgia here maybe in the [19]50s or [19]60s. They lived in Hawthorne. And they passed away from there.

	R:	So your mom grew up in Florida?



	F:	Mm-hm. Well she was a young adult when she came. Because she really came looking for work. So she could earn money and send it back to her family because it was such a big family.

	R:	Do you know what she worked as when she first got here? F:	A maid. She worked as a maid in Trenton.

	R:	In Trenton.



	F:	That’s where she met my dad.



	R:	Yes, okay. And then they moved here. F:	Mm-hm.

	R:	I’m just trying to connect the dots, you know, ‘cause I kind of skipped ahead. I got a little eager. [Laughter]

	F:	That’s okay.



	R:	So we covered when you were younger. How about today? So you already mentioned a lot of your activism and your community organizations. What about any sort of mutual aid organizations? Like between Black people and the community, like you mentioned the Farmers’ Aid Society. Do you wanna touch on any of those?





	F:	Well the Farmers’ Aid Society is an African American group of farmers who back in the time when it was segregated and very hard for them. Banking, getting loans and all that was very hard. And I’m learning this from them because I wasn’t involved. These were farmers. What they did was to band together into a society a society that they called the Farmers’ Aid Board or Farmers’ Aid Society. And they had rules and regulations that they followed in terms of meeting the needs of the members—financial needs or checking on them when they’re sick and if you were in the hospital you received X number of dollars, if you were out this long you received—and they would follow that. So they paid regular dues out of the money they made and saved that in order to help the families in need at the time. And I’m sure they furnished physical labor as well if somebody needed it but it certainly was there to meet that need. And that was good. So you know, I’ve belonged to a lot of organizations that are helping—like the NAACP, I chaired a health committee for them. They are involved in the city and I work with Dr. Tucker on the things that she does. But I speak at a lot of forums and workshops and I like to talk about health issues. My master’s degree in education was my first master’s and that was to teach. Well the National Aid for Nurses decided if you were teaching nursing, you needed a master’s degree in nursing. So I traveled back and forth working full time to University of South Florida to get my master’s in nursing and I got that in mental health, psych-mental health. So I’ve done some workshops and things from that.

	R:	So you, wow so many different all the different disciplines essentially in nursing.



So when did you go back to school and get your masters?





	F:	The first master’s—let’s see, I graduated in [19]72. So I think the end of seventies probably eighties, early eighties I got my master’s in education. And then it was [19]93 I think I got my MSN, masters of nursing.

	R:	With the NAACP—were you involved in the NAACP during the sixties? F:	Mm-hm. I—

	R:	Because you said you were also active—



	F:	I wasn’t as involved with them but I was a member of GWER, Gainesville Women for Equal Rights. And we did a lot of walking and riding and going and boycotting and all of those things. So that was my involvement there.

	R:	I know you did serve on a panel that did talk about GWER but do you maybe want to talk about any very specific events?

	F:	Well there was so many. Um, I worked with the others on the healthcare committee, actually I chaired the healthcare committee. There were four of us as our members: Mable Dorsey, Mary Webb, and Alice Howard. And there another girl I can’t—her name escapes me. So there were two Black women and two White women. But I just named more than that so maybe Mary wasn’t on there. I don’t want to give you—but anyway, the committee was charged with trying to integrate doctors’ offices and hospitals. And that’s what we took on. So a lot of this is not chronicled anywhere, but we decided that we would challenge the doctors’ offices first. Now Mable was pregnant with Rodney, who is some big professor in some school now in music. And she’s passed on. Mable was pregnant with Rodney and she was going to Doctor Dell I believe it was. So she decided that she was going—she would integrate that office. My doctor was on





Fourth Avenue and I decided I would integrate his office because here’s the scene: at that time there was cubby hole, a tiny little room for African Americans. You entered, go down the walkway to the back of the building, entered the room and the room was this little cubby hole. If you put two chairs together there was barely walking room between them. That was the waiting room. And then on the wall there was this window to look through to announce your presence there. And then at the time a nurse would come and get you and take you down. Well that’s all we knew. So we decided we weren’t going in that room anymore because it was our turn to integrate and if anybody was gonna do it, we were. So Mable went in the front door of her gynecologist’s office, or her obstetrician’s office. And I went in the front door for my doctor. And was amazed at how beautiful it was and all of that. But my doctor never sent me out and they never, they just accepted. They weren’t very cordial but that wasn’t why I was there. And I been in a lot of places that weren’t cordial to me but that has not been my problem. So from there, we then instructed others, “When you go, don’t go in that back room. Just choose the front room. And if this doctor won’t let you in the front room, choose another doctor.” And that’s how we did that. And then Alachua General, our strategy there was to confront them because they received federal funds. So when we presented that to the administrator, he didn’t integrate right away but we did let him know that the Hill-Burton funds only were supposed to go to places that did not discriminate either in their staff or patient care in any way. And they didn’t listen to us that day but Charles Chestnut belonged to a group—I think the Equal Rights, they were called or whatever—but there was a whole group of





dedicated people, seriously working on integration and they got lawyers out of Jacksonville to take the case on with the board of directors with the hospital. And I don’t remember when we had our talk with them but I do know in [19]58 my son, Delano, was born in the segregated hospital. And in [19]62 Craig was born in the integrated hospital. So somewhere in between there it occurred.

	R:	It was when they finally pressured them with the federal. . . F:	Yeah, well the lawyers. Got a little hot there. [Laughter]

	R:	Better step up your game essentially, yes. F:	That’s right, that’s right.

	R:	Anytime you threaten from above.



	F:	Yeah they don’t want to lose the money. R:	They don’t want to lose the money.

	F:	Which is why the schools integrated, the high schools integrate too because they didn’t want to lose the money. That’s it.

	R:	Yes, exactly. Of course they integrated in the wrong way. Oh gosh there’s so many things we could keep talking about. I wanted to know if you specifically in healthcare, do you have any, you already mentioned a few moments like with Dr. Banks buying the incubator for the babies and things like that. Were there any other moments that really had an impact on you like with patients or maybe with other workers?

	F:	I love babies. So we had the very sickest babies, you know they came with all sorts of illness. My thing was to just try to make an impact on them. So a baby was born with a cleft lip and palate. You know what that is? I worked with a group





of nurses and nursing assistants who were trying to find the best way to feed them. And what were learned was how to situate the red nipple, we called it, with a larger opening, in such a way that the baby could actually suck on that little bit of palate they had there. And so that became one of the things that I did a lot along with the other nurses on the floor. But then my niece was born with a cleft palate and her doctor didn’t recognize it and was trying to get her breastfed and she couldn’t, so she’s crying. My sister called and they were in Tallahassee. I said, “I’ll be right there.” So I took off there and fed her baby and the baby slept and she was just so tired, she was so shocked. So now this young lady, who’s a lawyer now, she says, “Well Aunt Vivian, I just credit you with my life.” [Laughter] But that was one of the things that I taught a lot. But there was a baby— meningomyelocele is what the spina bifida, is the worst spina bifida. ‘Cause really spina bifida you shouldn’t be able to see. It’s an imperfection that’s x-rayed, but meningomyelocele is a little impact on the back that’s—because it has fluid and nerve endings that should have gone to the rest of the lower extremities.

Well this young lady was born with that and I don’t think she would mind because we talk about this all the time.

	R:	We don’t have to say her name.



	F:	Yeah anyway she—well we won’t. That’ll be good. I took care of her when she was an hour old. She came home from Alachua General and her dad was standing at the window watching me give her a bath and get her ready. She’s just the cutest little thing. Well she went to surgery and they did that and over time she developed other things like hydrocephalus so she’s in and out of the hospital.





When she became old enough, she insisted that I have her—no matter what room I was taking care of, I had to get—“She’s here. Where’s Vivian?” Well we talk all the time. We send cards on birthdays and we’ve been in communication all the time. So last time we talked I said, I called her name, I said, “Tell me how old you are.” She said, “Well I’m fifty three.” [Laughter] I was just shocked. I thought all this time we’ve been friends, but things like that. But I also have been impressed with the fact that a lot of lives are saved at Shands that couldn’t have been saved anywhere else, I don’t think. I saw a lot of different things and worked with a lot of very wonderful people. The head nurse that I talk with on Facebook was talking about how great I was. I told her, “No, you were the great, you were the great. I worked with you.” But we worked together and we did a lot of things like that. I know one little guy when I was a clinical nurse, he was a hematology patient and he had a situation where it was just his dad taking care of him. He lost his mom and he had to be in and out because of hematology. And they had a hard time getting him so sometimes they’d miss appointments because they live in Jacksonville and the dad had to ride the bus and missed the bus, not have money. So he was going through a trying period where he had to be there almost every day. So he—I took him home to live with us because he was the middle age between my two boys and they loved it. So until he finished that therapy he stayed with us.

	R:	That’s so kind of you to do that.



	F:	Yeah, well I loved him. He was kind to take care of. R:	And then your own kids.





	F:	Oh yes I have two great kids. [Laughter]



	R:	What are their names and how old are they?



	F:	Delano Filer Junior, my husband is Delano Filer, Sr. He was named for the President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. And then my son who’s now sixty and is very ill—that’s why I’m at there. But he was a voice major. Got his bachelor’s degree in voice from Bethune-Cookman University. He taught for a while and then he worked as a social worker with Elder Options. My Son Craig—Craig Filer, Sr. now because he’s named his son Craig Filer—he was a Florida A&M University Graduate. His degree from there was in psych but then his master’s degree was in industrial psychology. I didn’t know anything about industrial psychology but he loves it.

	R:	I feel like it’s a newer field for sure.



F:  It’s a different field. But the minute he graduated he had a job because that was a new field and everybody was looking for it. So on his first interview—they wanted to hire him and he called and said, “Well mom, you think I should take the job?

It’s my first interview.” I said, “Well what are they paying you?” And he told me and I said, “Call them right now tell them you’ll be right in.” [Laughter] So now he’s been there thirty years. He his thirty year anniversary there.

	R:	That’s great. Okay, so Delano was a vocalist and—



	F:	Bass baritone. And Craig sings but he yeah, Craig sings. All of us sing at a level.



And at Christmas and Thanksgiving, all the times we’re together, it’s just a big blast. Three or four part harmony. My nephews have their own quartet. They travel all over the state signing. So, we were out at a party one time at the, at a





restaurant and they sent over the waiters to sing happy birthday and when they left we put our own cake out and we sang happy birthday in three and four part harmony. And they came back and they said, “Why did you let us do that?” [Laughter]

	R:	“We just embarrassed themselves in front of you.” [Laughter]



	F:	But you know, we love all the singing. Everybody can do their part.



	R:	Wow, so you obviously have very good genetics for singing and music. F:	From my dad I think.

	R:	So did you raise your children in the church as well? F:	Oh yeah.

	R:	And they also sang in the church?



	F:	Well yeah and Craig sings in the church choir now. Delano wasn’t as active, but they all have had that time. Mm-hm. And Sarah sings in our choir. We’re at different churches now. And Kay sings in her choir. And then we get together.

	R:	Do all your sisters still live in Gainesville or in surrounding areas?



	F:	No my, my oldest sister lived here but she passed away two years ago. Three years ago March. Was on her birthday, her birthday was on the thirtieth. And my baby sister is in Mount Vernon, New York. She’s the lone ranger. But she comes home. Yeah she comes home. Her husband is a minister and he was moved there with the Church of Christ. So that’s where she is. So they raised their girls, started in Tallahassee, then raised them up there. So one of them is a speech pathologist and she’s married and moved back down to Winter Park and the older one is Aluria, she’s still theremin New York.





	R:	So that must be nice to have a lot of your family still here—



	F:	Oh it is. And my mom, who everybody called Big Momma, since she was a chef her food was off the chain. So all big holidays were at her house and she knew which each grandchild—she loved grandchildren. Because she had five daughters and the three of us that were married first between us had nine boys before a girl was born. She loved it and they all talk about Big Momma and what she cooked. She knew my son liked this or whatever and she’d call him up and she’d have that for them. But she really was outstanding. The church knew she was outstanding in that as well.

	R:	What kind of food would she cook?



	F:	Soul food basically and she had a big pot that she made yellow rice in and different from any yellow rice we’d ever had. She’s never send it to the church though, until they were ready to serve it. She was not having them burn it.

	R:	She wanted it nice and fresh.



	F:	Yeah, she did not want them to reheat it and burn it so she’d say, “Well when you’re ready to serve it, send somebody over here.” [Laughter]

	R:	You can get it from me. [Laughter]



	F:	So now everybody says, “Do you have Big Momma’s recipe?” I say, “Oh no, I don’t have that. I have some but I don’t have that one.”

	R:	It was a secret.



	F:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	R:	So in the community itself, how have you seen it change positively from the time that—like pre-integration, segregation to now, Like any sort of—





	F:	Well see, I take a different view on that. We don’t—I say we don’t have integration. We have some desegregation in some places. True integration brings on equality and we have not achieved that yet. My niece that I told you that’s teaching, the speech pathologist, just two days, three days ago, she had a group of kids together and she instructed a young man to go sit next to another young man, he’s Native Indian, Native American. And he told her that his parents told him not to sit next to niggers. So see I say we have a long way to go. Now I’m very positive about the things that are being done. And I think they’re being done on both sides. I’m involved with a lot of well hardworking—well-meaning people who are working to try to make this happen. And this is from all over and I’m really proud of that but there’s a lot of work that’s undone that we did back— because I marched in the Civil Rights movement, I sat, I did all these things and now it feels like oh my goodness, are we going backwards? But what we’re doing is uncovering what was smoldering under there all the time, it just didn’t surface. So my thing, and I’m pretty bold I try to say what I mean and I try to say the same thing all the time. And what I say is that we’ve got to have the real talk. The responsibility has got to be shared it can’t just be placed on us. We’ve got to prove that we’re good Americans, we’ve got to prove our history. We’ve got to prove that we accept, we’re tired of doing that. We want it to be mutual society.

So I said to a group, “I want to know, when I walk past Buccholz High School and Gainesville High School, to get to my segregated school in the rain on the other side of town. You’re sitting there in your school, perhaps looking at me, I want to know what you were thinking. You were the other side. If you’re a student you





weren’t responsible for that but you must have had a thought about it. And as an adult, what did you do about it. Did you see any inequity in there? Did you take time to find out enough about it to know that there was an inequity?” If you were saying that I know the travails of African Americans and what they’re suffering and what they’ve done and you’ve never read a book written by an African American, you really don’t know. Because as much as I think others try to write our story, they’re not our story. They’ll do the best they can, but they’re not our story. So James Baldwin and all of those, you have to read them to know what’s going on. Zora Neale Hurston, we just celebrated her.

	R:	Love, love her. She’s incredible.



	F:	Very incredible. She was really a woman before her time. R:	She truly, so underappreciated.

	F:	Absolutely.



	R:	I completely agree with—I was just kind of in awe of what you just said but it’s true. You can’t just take someone’s story, you know, and make it your own, and write it in the way that you felt it happened.

	F:	That’s right, that’s right. Because you will perceive things because you’re a human. And if you don’t know-- if I see somebody sitting on the side of the road that’s African American and without something. And you see somebody, you’re gonna want to help them as I want to help them. But what I see is my uncle and my granddaddy and my cousin and what I’m remembering is situations that put them there. So I can tell the story from a different place than you even though you’re willing and you want to do that. So that’s the depth that needs to be there.





	R:	Okay, I just lost my train of thought a little bit. But do you have any, other than obviously Zora Neale Hurston, are there any other Black women or Black men that really were I don’t know, not exactly role models but just that you think have been, outstanding members of society?

	F:	Well I look at Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune, who started a whole college and she nurtured in that way and she had a lot of other women that worked, you know, alongside of her, but she—go back further than that. My favorite hero is Sojourner Truth. Now was born Isabella Baumfree and she had a religious experience and changed her name but she walked into that meeting in Ohio and had her say because her name was Sojourner Truth, she walked in and her speech says, “Well what’s all this racket going on? Seems to me that between the White women of the norf and the niggers of the south, all they talk about they rights, the White man is gonna be in a fix pretty soon. He says that women got to be lifted over ditches and helped over into carriage and given the finest places everywhere. Ain’t nobody never helped me over no ditch. And ain’t nobody never lifted me in no carriage. And ain’t I a woman?” And she goes on and I do the whole speech sometimes. But you go to read it. It’s just—

	R:	It’s Ain’t I a Woman, right? Yes, I’ve heard of it, mm-hm.



	F:	And you know it’s been, it has been redacted or rewritten or revised so many times, it’s even in Standard English in some places.

	R:	Yeah, I’ve seen it written in Standard English.



	R:	And they said that she was actually born up north and to Dutch—she was into a Dutch family, I guess that’s who owned her. So she actually may not have





spoken African American Folk language but whoever rewrote the speech did it in such a way so it’s—there’s several versions and some have, say that she had thirteen children, some say she had five children so it really does change along the way. The fact that they were all sold off into slavery is what the important thing is.

	R:	So it was harder to keep track of maybe how many kids she actually had. So which version do you typically?—

	F:	I do that thirteen, she had thirteen. “I done born thirteen chillun’ in the world. And had ‘em almost all sold off into slavery. And when I cried out with the mothers’ grief, ain’t nobody heard me but my Jesus and ain’t I a woman?” So I take the thirteen. She’s something.

	R:	Do you want? How long is it? Do you want to recite the whole thing? F:	Oh do you want to? [Laughter] You could have said. . .[Laughter]

	R:	I love listening to you! F:	Okay well.

	R:	We have time and time. . .



	F:	“Appears to me that between the White women of the north and the negroes of the south all talk about they rights. The White man’s gonna be in a fix pretty soon. And that man over there, he says that women got to be lifted over ditches and helped into carriages and given the finest places ever’where. Ain’t nobody never helped me into no carriage. And ain’t nobody never lifted over no ditch.

And ain’t I a woman? Look at me. I done plowed and planted and lifted in the barns and ain’t no man can had me. I can work as much and eat as much as any





man when I could get it. And ain’t I a woman? I done born thirteen chillun’ in the world and had ‘em almost all sold off into slavery. And when I cried out with a mother’s grief ain’t nobody hugged me but my Jesus. And ain’t I a woman?

What’s that thing in the head? Intellect. That’s it honey. If my cup won’t hold but a pint and your’n would hold a quart, wouldn’t you be mighty mean not to let me have my little half measure full? Hmm. That man over there in the black suit, he say women ain’t got no rights ‘cause Christ wasn’t a woman. Women ain’t got no rights.” I forget that part. “And I said, where did your Christ come from? From God and a woman. Ain’t no man had nothin’ to do with it. And if one woman that God created could turn the world upside-down all by herself. Appears to me that all these here in this room ought to be able to sit at right side up again. And now that’s all I got to say. Ol’ Sojourner Truth ain’t got nothin’ else to say.” And I kinda ad libbed it at some of it.

	R:	No that’s okay.



	F:	But the idea is that she’s trying to get them to reason with women can do it. And look at what we’re doing now. Oh if Sojourner could see it now.

	R:	She was essentially the first feminist if you, if you just put feminism in that. F:	That’s right. She said we could do it. Mm-hm.

	R:	She’s incredible. You’re incredible to be able to remember all that. [Laughter] wow. So do you have any final thoughts or reflections that you would want to add that we didn’t get to touch on throughout the whole thing? I know we kinda jumped around.





	F:	Well the fact that we’re going to try to capture local African American history through the Cotton Club Museum and Cultural Center Inc. We’ve been working on it for years. We had ribbon cutting on, in November on Veterans’ Day. Actaully had some veterans there who spoke, it was a big affair. It was beautiful. Then we had the big gala on February the Second. But our goal is to bring in African American history that is teachable, and people can come to learn. We want to have artists to come that will introduce their genre of whatever art and then bring the kids in from the schools to see it. We will have traveling exhibits, some are— which are coming along—and our real emphasis will be on music but we’ll cover it all. And right now a big part of what we want to get in is local history of people who’ve contributed in Gainesville who weren’t at the top of the ladder in terms of position but prodded along, did their everyday thing and were the fabric of the community. So what I’ve done is taken what the Triad community—I will move all over town but this is the way I’m starting—Porter’s, Spring Hill and Sugar Hill, and I’ve asked each of these communities to pick two families that we’re calling the Pioneer families. And we’ll gather the data on them and I’ll probably get with you guys to record it. And we want to get, you know, artifacts and pictures and whatever they can gather to make it a museum display. And then display that— I’ll have a big reception to introduce it and keep it for six months. And then go take another set and for each one that’s there ask them to leave—we’ll decide what we want to leave in a permanent way and get a perpetual wall going that does that. So when the children come along, they feel valued because “Yes my mother played the piano—she played the piano for forty years. Yes my mother





did this for the community but she did that all of her life and she was successful at it and my daddy was a carpenter. My daddy laid bricks, my daddy this.” We’re losing all of that because there are no apprentice now will all of these people because they’re contracted out and their losing the vocational part of it and there’s money in the vocational part, there are careers there and they’re very upstanding places to be. So those are thing I want to highlight in the museum.

	R:	And just have people be aware of local histories for sure because I don’t know about you but definitely me growing up, I never—the only thing I knew about Florida history was Ponce de Leon and St. Augustine.

	F:	Yeah, that’s what they taught. Which is really, yeah right. [Laughter]



	R:	They’re like, “Oh he, Christopher Columbus came and the conquistadors and they just took the land and that’s it.”

	F:	Yeah, yeah, mm-hm, they took it.



	R:	But they didn’t even mention the Native Americans that they took it from.



	F:	Yeah it belonged to someone. That’s right. And what they did to them. What they did to them.

	R:	That was eighteenth—way, way before, you know.



	F:	Yeah and another thing we do though, we celebrate the Emancipation Proclamation. We have what we call Juneteenth festival on the nineteenth of June and this year we are also celebrating the emancipation of Florida because there were two states that were lagging with letting their citizens know. The nineteenth of June for Galveston, Texas was read but on the twentieth of May in Tallahassee the Emancipation Proclamation was read, two and a half years later,





1865. So we will have displays commemorating that because we want the history to be known. We’re not asking anybody to go back and fix it because you don’t fix history. You just record it, learn from it so you don’t repeat it if it was negative. And that’s our goal.

	R:	We’re not here to rewrite it, we’re just here to. . .



	F:	Yeah and not hold blame. I tell people go ahead and say it. We’re not holding you responsible for it but if you don’t ever acknowledge it and sweep up, it’s like—I hope this is, you can cut it out—it’s like right now when we say—what is this thing about America?—“Make America Great Again.” I’m thinking which part of this greatness should I look for? The slavery part? The segregation part? What is it I’m going back to? I had that conversation just a few days ago at the symposium. I had this big debate that said “Oh Vivian’s getting that guy.” Because he came in there with that hat on, I said, “What are you doing with that hat on?” Didn’t know how to let him know that that’s really not any place we need to go back to. But anyway.

	R:	It’s like make it great to what? F:	Yeah to what?

	R:	What was great?



	F:	Okay well thank you.



	R:	Yeah they do say—man I can’t remember it’s like “History belongs to those who write it.” So it’s always been White men.

	F:	That’s right. It’s his story not ours. The great White father’s story.





R:  Yes. His story. Okay so I don’t have anything else I would like to ask you but this was incredible.

F:   Thank you.



R:  Thank you so much for coming up and driving, I don’t know how long? An hour, two hours?

F:  No it’s just sixty miles. It’s supposed to be an hour and twenty seven minutes. I usually shave a few minutes off. [Laughter]

R:  Thank you so much for traveling here this morning. It’s so incredible to meet you. You have done so much for not only Gainesville but just I see a lot of potential for the Cotton Club Museum.

F:   Thank you.



	R:	Especially if it’s going to be traveling around Florida because kids need to know.



These young people need to know—I mean I’m a young person—but I think more people my age need to be aware of things that have happened in Florida and then maybe even national history as well.

	F:	And I find that they do want to know, the resources aren’t there in a way that they want to receive them because we have this technology group now and they’re not going to pick up a book, usually, and read it. They might listen to a book but they’re not actually gonna pick one up. So how do we present this history to them and how do we get them engaged enough to realize they are here because of this history? That’s important, thank you for asking me.

	R:	Thank you very much for coming out today and that’s the end of the interview for now.











Transcribed by:

Anna Spiller

June 18, 2019

Audit-edited by:

Cristina Rodriguez

August 21, 2019

Final edited by:

Sandra Romero

November 18, 2020