AAHP 775; Preer; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 775 Ronald Preer 2-29-2020 Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on February 29, 2020

73 minutes | 21 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Dr. Paul Ortiz and Mr. Ronald Preer discuss Preer's diverse array of careers throughout his life in Pensacola, Florida. Preer recalls his work as an Army Mechanic stationed for two years in western Germany, where he was stationed near Fulda Pass, a region known as high-risk for potential Soviet invasions. Preer recalls how he narrowly avoided a tour in Vietnam. Then, Preer discusses the difficulties of finding a well-paying job as an African American upon his return from Germany.

Preer worked as a bus driver, then as a fire station dispatcher, before working for the fire department for several decades. He attended LSU where he obtained advanced training in firefighting, which took him to the scene of disasters such as plane crashes and train derailments. Preer now has a wife, two children, and six grandchildren.





Keywords: [army, veteran, Germany, Cold War, Vietnam, mechanic, firefighter, civil servant, Black Pensacola, Escambia County]



AAHP 775

Interviewee: Ronald Preer Interviewer: Paul Ortiz Date: February 29, 2020

	O:	Alright, its February 29th, we are here with Mr. Preer, we are at the Branch Library at Pensacola. Thank you so much Mr. Preer for taking the time out of your day to talk with us.

	P:	Thank you very much.



	O:	Well Mr. Preer, my name is Paul Ortiz and I was wondering if we could start by if you could tell us kind of where you were born, what life was like when you were growing up?

	P:	I was born in Pensacola, Florida. And I lived in the city until we moved to Warrington, which I was raised mostly in Warrington. And from there I grew up and went to high school, junior high, and graduated, joined the service, the Army, spent three years in the Army and I got out. And I worked at Sacred Heart as an orderly for twenty years. And I got a job as a bus driver, and then I was the assistant manager and head maintenance man for Pensacola Village for about a year, a year and a half.

	O:	Is that a residential?



	P:	That’s on the corner of Fairfield and Davis. O:	Okay.

	P:	It’s a housing project. And I was there for about a year and a half until they sold the business and I had broken my foot and had to move on to something else, so I drove the city bus for a minute. And then I got into the Pensacola Fire Department, started out as a dispatcher in [19]73, I think it was. And I worked as a dispatcher and during that time they were trying—everybody was trying to hire minorities. And I got on as a dispatcher, but I was right at the age where they





don’t hire after a certain age. And so a friend of mine who was a lieutenant, Timothy Pool, in the police department asked me if I would be interested in joining the police department, I said, “Well sure” because this job was great but it was a dead-end job, you couldn’t go any higher.

	O:	As a dispatcher?



	P:	Yeah, the dispatchers there’s only like four of us, I think. So you couldn’t you wasn’t going nowhere. So anyway, I talked to the chief of the police at the time, it was Gloss, Chief Gloss, and I talked to him and so he told me that if I was interested to come sign some papers and we’d go from there. Well, he called the chief of the fire department to ask for a recommendation. Well, the chief called me after I talked to him for a little bit and said, “Why Ron, I thought you wanted to be a fireman?” And I said, “Well I did but you just had a test and you’re not gonna have another test and I’ll be too old.” So back in those days people did what they wanted to do, is he said, “Well, have you signed any papers?” And I said “not yet.” So, he said, “Well, don’t sign anything.” And I said okay. He said, just look for me tomorrow when you go to work, we’ll look around and see if everything is alright. I said “Okay, what you talking about.” But I go to work the next day and, on the board, it says, “Interdepartmental examination for fire fighter I.” The only person that could have taken it would be me and the secretary. And at that time, they weren’t hiring women so it was only me, and I took the test and passed and I joined the fire department, spent my career as a firefighter.

	O:	Wow. In the early [19]70s were there many African American firefighters here?





	P:	I was the second hired with the city of Pensacola. John Newton was the first. Myself, I was hired as a dispatcher. And then Terry Lewis was the third. That’s the first three. Yeah there weren’t many

	O:	So, what was that experience like? I mean—



	P:	Eh, you were in a place that people didn’t want you to be there. They had two guys left when I joined them, and it was kind of hard. You didn’t have people to talk to. Some of the people that you talked to were okay. Some of them didn’t want to talk to you, you’d just pick and choose. Good friends with most of them, but I came in, the first thing they tell you is—Everybody slept in the same bed. And they would, at that time, they didn’t change the sheets. You got out of the bed, the next guy came, they’d get in the bed. Well, I brought my own sheets. But John, he joined, he got lucky, they took him out to Station Four and gave him his own bed so no one would have to sleep behind him. But it worked out. It was tough at first, but it was just like anything. People have to get to know people, even though they think they dislike you because of your color or whatever. But it just took a while.

	O:	Mr. Peer, I wonder if you won’t mind going back to your youth and like growing up. One thing Teniade asked us to try to do is to begin to put together kind of almost like a map or a memory board of who were some of the important people back in say the [19]50s and [19]60s, like people you may have looked up to or leaders or ministers or role models. It could be even your parents.

	P:	Back in my day, you didn’t think about being a fireman or policeman because it was nothing that was offered to you. You couldn’t apply, you couldn’t do nothing,





back when I was a youngster, I mean. But we had my father, my stepfather was Dr. Olson. And I looked up to him. Dr. SW Boyd was a friend of the family so I got to know them and their families, people like that, Dr. Williams—

	O:	Now were they educators?



	P:	Yes, Dr. Williams was over the Pensacola, the Black Pensacola Junior College at the time and they were educators. Dr. Boyd was a dentist, S.W. Boyd was a dentist. He was the first Black dentist here in Pensacola. Then…Mr. White, he wasn’t an educator he was just a good man, a good role model.

	O:	What made a good role model, a good man? Like how would you—



	P:	A good role model was a man who had a good job and went to work and had when he was going somewhere or doing something to better himself. I never thought about being a physician or something like that, it just never grew in my mind. School-wise, I don’t think I was really—wasn’t my cup of tea.

	O:	So how do you end up in the Army?



	P:	I went to school, my aunt enrolled me in Pensacola Junior College— O:	Seems to me that was straight out of high school?

	P:	Straight out of high school. I got to summer school, she had enrolled me into school, I went one day and I knew that I wasn’t gonna make it in Junior College so I left school that day and went down to the Army enlistment center—

	O:	The same day?



	P:	The same day. [Laughter] That afternoon. Matter of fact, I walked down there from where Washington was, but it was downtown, I went down there and signed all the papers and I was in the Army. I didn’t want to be in the Navy.





	O:	Why not?



	P:	You saw the Navy guys around here and I didn’t like the White uniforms. O:	Okay.

	P:	So I just thought the Army would be the way to go.



	O:	That’s how I ended up in the Army. I grew up in a Navy town, Burlington, Washington, and I’m like, the last thing I wanted to do was be a sailor

	P:	So I did Army for three years, I was a mechanic. Went to Germany, spent two years and two months in Germany.

	O:	What was boot camp like and where did you go to boot camp?



	P:	Fort Polk, Louisiana so far back in the woods they had to pump sunshine. [Laughter] It is really an out of the way place and I left the base—the whole time I was in boot camp—I left the base once to go in town with all the guys. And we went through this small town called Leesville, and the nickname for Leesville was “Diseaseville.” So we rode through and all the guys got out and said, “Come on, come on, come on.” “Thank you, but no I’m going back to the base.” [Laughter] So I didn’t get off the bus, I just went right on back to the base. Never left.

	O:	Do you remember some of the people you met at bootcamp? Like where they were from, were they mainly from the South or were they from different?

	P:	Most of them were from the South. I think when I first joined, we had to go from Montgomery, I think that’s where everybody had to go at that time. I was lucky there, I went to do a physical and I weighed ninety-nine, almost one hundred pounds, and the guy doing it realized and he said, “You need to go outside and put a couple rocks in your pocket and come back.” [Laughter]





	O:	You had to weigh one hundred?



	P:	You had to weigh one hundred, so I did. I went out and got some rocks in my pocket and I was like one hundred one or something. [Laughter] Come back inside and passed. At that time we were just, the test wasn’t hard in the military.

O:  Now, back then, of course the military had been integrated a few years before but you know, I’ve talked to a lot of veterans, we were at the American Legion and all yesterday 193, and they were talking about a lot of racial issues in the [19]70s and stuff. So, did you run into that in the military?

	P:	You did. It wasn’t as blatant. We went from here going to Montgomery. They gave me the paperwork—I don’t know why, but they gave me the paperwork for the trip for everybody to eat. And we’d stop one place, and you’d eat and then you’d get back on the bus and go up to Montgomery. I didn’t know, I took the paperwork to go inside and they told me there was a check, I would have to get the owner of the restaurant. And I went in the front door. And the guy, he starts cussing me out telling me to get out, go around the back. I said, “I don’t want to eat here.” He said, “Get out of my place.” I got up and I left, all the guys heard, and they finished eating and come and got on the bus and then he came and got on the bus. He said, “Who has the check?” I said, “I have the check.” He says, “I need it” I said, “Well, I’ll mail it to you because I’m not coming back in there. You put me out one time.” He says, “No, I’m taking the check.” All the guys get up and said, “No, you’re not taking the check.” So, it was not a pretty experience.

	O:	It was mainly Black kids?





	P:	Black and White kids from Pensacola. We were all from Pensacola, not much difference then than there is now. We got off in the military, told them what happened, gave them the paperwork, and I think they changed restaurants where they go to eat.

	O:	He wasn’t gonna let you come in the restaurant?



	P:	Oh no, you couldn’t come in the front door. I didn’t know at the time, I was just gonna go in and give him the check. But everybody had to go around the back to eat, you had to go around the back and eat it from the back.

	O:	And what town was that in?



P:  I don’t even remember. It was between here and Montgomery. O:  Okay. So Alabama—

P:  Somewhere in Alabama, a little small town. O:  Okay. And that would have been in [19]62. P:  [19]62.

	O:	Wow, so the Civil Rights Movement was very active in Alabama in different places, but he was trying to hold the line.

	P:	Back then they were trying to keep it White and right. In the military it was different, once you got in you had some people that was racist but there wasn’t enough of them to stand out or do anything or make you feel threatened.

	O:	Do you remember your drill instructors?



	P:	I do remember some. I can’t remember his name; I want to say Darwin, something like that. He was a real good guy, crazy. A nice guy. He had this opportunity all the time, it was hot, very hot there. And they told us we had to go





march one day and while we were supposed to be marching, we got caught marching and post a man to know about [inaudible 00:14:21]. It was always y’all won’t get away but he was just a nice guy. But he tried to keep us out there running, it was like ninety-eight or ninety-nine, one hundred and something. [inaudible 00:14:38] But everybody did it, so. I loved the military.

	O:	So you survived boot camp, but where did you go to your advanced training at?



	P:	I went and left Pensacola, they sent me to Everdeen, Maryland. No, no, I’m sorry, they sent me to California, to a—it’s the school where you’re typing and I don’t know what that job was—

	O:	Telecommunication?



	P:	No, it’s where you supply. They sent me to supply school, and I’m in supply school for about two and a half weeks and the captain comes to visit me. And he calls me up, he says, “How did you get here?” “By a plane.” He says, “What are you doing here?’ I said, “I have no earthly idea. My spelling is not good, I have never typed a word. So everything I was typing was you know, just—He said, “Well, you’re not doing well at all in class.” I said, “Well, I joined the Army and I signed all my paperwork to be a mechanic.” He said, “That’s what I’m looking at, I’m trying to figure out how you got here.” I said, “I don’t know.” He said, “Well I’ll see what I can do about it. You still want to be a mechanic?” I said, “Sure.” So he gave me the—not go to finish school, just drop out of that. And about a week and a half later I got orders to go to Everdeen, Maryland. And that’s—Everdeen, Maryland is a proving ground. You teach mechanics. And I graduated from there as a mechanic.





	O:	So they finally sent you to the right school.



	P:	Yeah. I don’t know whether it was just—I know the first part of it, I just wasn’t good at spelling or a typer. But the other stuff, the mechanic school it was easy for me.

	O:	Now did you grow up learning mechanics or you know, work on—



	P:	I was one of the kids if you left me sitting in the car long enough, I’d take it apart and put it back together. Just bicycles, anything I could get my hands on, the radio.

	O:	Did anyone teach you how to do that or you just kind of grew up learning?



	P:	No because my mother, my father died, my stepfather they got a divorce, so my mother raised me, my sister and my brother. And they were older. But—

	O:	So, I’m sure as a mechanic, what were you trained to work on primarily? P:	Big trucks and small trucks. Jeeps and diesel trucks. Replace the engines,

rebuild the engine or transmission or whatever.



	O:	Wow so then your first duty station after that was, you said, West Germany?



	P:	Germany. I went to Frankfurt, Frankfurt was my first duty station and Frankfurt was like—man it was a shocker to me. It was a big city. I was not ready for Frankfurt. And I—They saw me come in one day and he wanted to know if we had any volunteers, wanted to send some guys to detachment, I’m going, “Okay,” and he walked past me and pushed my hand down. And he walked around he says, he asked and nobody said—I kept raising my hand, he said, he said “This place is cold, Wild Flicking. The hills in general, Wild Flicking,” he sent us up in the mountains. He said, “It’s secluded, it’s way up in the mountains. You don’t





want to be there.” He says, “You’re out there by yourself.” I said, “It’d be better than here.” [Laughter] So I got transferred and that’s where I spent my two years, over there. Two years, two years.

	O:	Up in the mountains? Kind of—Was it like a border—?



	P:	Yeah it was right, the graph over here was it wasn’t too far and it was up in the mountain on the border and just an attachment, a place called Wild Flicking. Fulda was the closest town.

	O:	Oh yeah because that’s where—one of the scenarios was that that could have been where to Soviets could have driven tanks through. Like the Fulda Gap?

	P:	Mmhmm.



	O:	Okay.



	P:	When I Wild Flicking was discovered that they were coming back—Planes and bombers were coming back and they had too much bombs left so they just dropped them over water. And I found where I was looking was a hot spot for the USS training and stuff they found, that’s how they found that little town. But it was just a good place to work. Wild Flicking and Graphenburg was the only two places in use at that time when I was in the military, you didn’t get overseas pay.

	O:	You didn’t?



	P:	But you could get it. Because it was just a kind of out so they paid you extra for being there. You came to Germany, you were either going to Gräfenberg or Wild Flicking for your training. One of those two places you would have to go for your training while you were there.

	O:	I see. But in Frankfurt you didn’t get overseas pay?





	P:	Unh-uh.



	O:	That’s interesting. I didn’t’ know that.



	P:	Because it’s just a big city, it’s a town, there’s nothing adversarial. I was looking at Gräfenberg while I was—when you came to Gräfenberg right off of it you slept out in the woods. You know, you did your field training and that’s where it was done. You stay there for two weeks, a week, you got a little bit of pay. A lot of guys stationed there they got extra pay for this and that.

	O:	It always makes me feel better because when I was recruited, they said, “We’re gonna send our T’s, we’re gonna send you our recruiters over, we’re gonna send you to west Germany, put you up in a—you’re gonna think the barracks is a four- star hotel.” [Laughter]. Now, I ended up in Central America instead, I was always thinking—

	P:	Wow!



	O:	--why didn’t I go to west Germany? [Laughter]. It sounds like it wasn’t a four-star hotel for you.

	P:	I actually believe that the barracks we had was a big four-story building. We had two floors that we didn’t use, another two that were just locked up that we didn’t use. And it was nice because there was like great big rooms and there was like a—

	O:	Wow. Okay so cool, you did have a four star—



	P:	The first one went in to the downstairs floor, that’s the floor we used for our inspection floor. Everything was in there it was put—If you rolled the underwear, you rolled all the underwear and put it in every guy’s thing and you measured





each one of them and everything was put in, the toothbrush was put in. That’s— we put it all in because we had to earn inspection, we had to always pass. But we lived on the second floor.

	O:	It was like a model showcase for inspections?



	P:	Yeah, that’s exactly what it was. The boots we had, we had to take them outside and rough ‘em up, at least the bottom of ‘em, so it looked like they was worn. [Laughter] Because we didn’t wear them. Then you’d sit there and shine ‘em, get ‘em all shined up and make sure there weren’t no dust on ‘em when inspection staff comes. But we didn’t have inspections but once every six months or something like that.

	O:	Okay. So what kind of vehicles did you end up working on over there? Mainly like



Desenhalfs and jeeps and?



P:  Jeeps, Desenhalfs and three-quarters. And we had a big wrecker but we never worked—I drove wrecker for a while going to pick up stuff and bring it out to us. Other than that, it was just regular stuff we worked on.

	O:	Okay, wow. Did you ever have like any back in the [19]60s, I’m trying to remember now, like did they ever put you on alert or was there every any—did you hear or follow anything that was happening in like say East Berlin or was it just--?

	P:	Nah. Up there where we were, we didn’t get that much of alerts. Because we were so isolated we’d get the same information everybody else got but we didn’t worry about anybody coming up there, even though we were close to the border.

	O:	Right. Pretty far up. About how many men were in that base?





	P:	I really don’t remember. My detachment, there was only like six of us in our detachment. The Sergeant, the B-4, that was me, and then the rest were E-3’s, coming up, young guys.

	O:	Because I was going to ask you like what your impressions were of Germany then but it sounds like you were away—

	P:	I liked Germany. I went and drove bus for the USO, just to go around and go to different places. I got to be friendly with a girl I got that worked at the USO, they got me driving the bus for them. On the weekends we’d go through different towns, go around and see different places. It was neat. The smaller towns you go to, the people were friendly, especially to the Black people. They look at you, they never seen Black people so they were really up against you, and they want to touch you. They just want to see if it comes off. You know, they look when they walking and they‘re looking like “What’s that?”—And they finally ask, you know, go right ahead, touch it. Germany was, it was, I enjoyed it. It was fun for me.

	O:	Now you said you made E-4 was that your highest rank? P:	Mmhm.

	O:	Did you ever think about re-enlisting, were you just planning to do the?



	P:	Re-enlisting. Yes, I wanted to re-enlist. My tour in the military was really good, I enjoyed every bit of it and it was enjoyable. But when I went to re-enlist, the guy told me I had to go to Vietnam when I got there. I said, “Okay, no problem, I’ll go to Vietnam.” I said, “I’ll go to Vietnam after I go home.” And he said, “No. You’re going to Vietnam from Germany.” I said, “No, if you check my record,” I said, “I’ve





been in Germany for two years and two months and I’m getting out in two years and three months.” And I said, “I have not had a vacation.”

O:  You never went on leave? P:  I had never gone on leave. O:  Wow.

	P:	But now saying that, I had been on leave. But the paperwork turned into me—If I wanted to go somewhere for a couple days, I told the guys I was leaving and I’d fill my paperwork out when I come back. Then I’d forget to fill it out when I got back, so it showed I’d never been on vacation. So, I told them, “It shows that I had never been on leave.”

	O:	But you had never been back to Pensacola, back home?



	P:	No, I’d never been back home. Never. So he says, “Well now, you still have to go. You have to leave here and go to—” So I said, “I’ll just go home.”

	O:	Yeah that’s not reasonable.



	P:	Yeah so he said, I think he was one of those guys at the time, I don’t know, he thought he was powerful. So I said, “I’ll just go home.” And he says, “No, I’ll just automatically re-enlist you, make you, AOS critical, it’s your job,” they can sign you up and send you where they wanted to. And I said, “Well, you do what you got to do.” Well, he didn’t know that all the paperwork came to my unit, I took care of. And he did, he signed it, said my AOS was critical, wanted to extend me for two years in the military. So, I just denied it and sent it back down. [Laughter] So I didn’t got to ‘Nam, I came home. That’s how I got back out of the service.

But I really wanted to stay in the service, and then when I got here I wanted to go





to the reserves, but the reserves for me was in Mobile. And that was just too far, so I didn’t join the reserves.

	O:	Yeah it’s like fifty miles down the road or something.



	P:	Yeah, yeah, yeah. And at that time I didn’t have a car, so.



	O:	So, coming back to the United States, what were you thinking about in terms of your options? Were you thinking--?

	P:	I was thinking I was gonna get a good job as a diesel mechanic. And I went down, it was Greens Diesel Mechanic Shop downtown, I tried to get a job and at the time they were paying like eight dollars for a diesel mechanic, which was really good—

	O:	Eight dollars an hour? Wow.



	P:	Yeah. And so he got to me, I showed him my paperwork and everything. He said, “Well I can hire you, but I’ll start you off at about $3.75 and hour. I said, “Okay.” So I didn’t take the job.

	O:	Why did he say that?



	P:	I think he figured I wanted the job and they didn’t have to pay me that much. O:	They didn’t have any Black mechanics?

	P:	They didn’t have no Black mechanics, no. He just offered me something. O:	So, he was gonna pay you half? Half of what everybody else?

	P:	Yeah, there was another guy that worked down there and he told me what they were making. But anyway, it worked out for me in the long run because I left there and went to Sacred Heart as an orderly, I worked as an orderly, and then the bus, drove the bus for a while.





O:  Wow. What happened, Mr. Preer, when you were in Germany and you had basic training, your advanced training, Germany for two years, when you came back to Pensacola, what had changed?

P:  Didn’t seem like much had changed. [Laughter]. O:  Certainly not at the diesel shop.

	P:	No, right. It was a—the city was trying to grow but by the time I got back here people were trying to hire minorities and stuff. That was, it seemed like it was going in the right direction. So, I think, the first job—I think about it now, think about what I applied for when I got back here—was a job where they used to narrow lines. And the girl was gonna hire me and they signed the paperwork and everything and then I stood up to thank her, she understood I could speak a little bit of German, not much, she was real happy with me and everything, and when I stood up to leave and everything she said, “Well, how tall are you?” I said, “6, 2

½”” And she calls the company and says, no, no, they can’t hire me. I won’t fit in the elevator. And I said, “Well I’ll squat” [Laughter]. And at that time they wouldn’t—she tried. She called, but I could not.

	O:	The elevator? Like the elevator for?



	P:	I was gonna be a steward. That’s what I was gonna be, a steward but they wouldn’t. So, I had to see the world. And did my career. Too tall. That’s when I went and did these other little jobs, and I got hired with the fire department.

	O:	So and you were with the fire department for a long time? P:	Yeah, thirty-six years.





	O:	Wow, so talk about your, Mr. Preer if you wouldn’t mind, like when you first went in you had been a dispatcher--?

	P:	Joining the fire department was—When I was driving the city bus, and I guy got on the bus one day and at the time I was having a problem with my stomach for some reason. And I went to the doctor and he says, “Your stomach can’t take the bouncing.” So anyway, a guy got on the bus one day and he had a paper, had it folded up and he had a thing circled and he threw it on the bus, he got off, and left the paper. And I got it, it says, “Fire Dispatcher.” I’m going, “What is a fire dispatcher?” I had no idea when a fire dispatcher did or was, but at that time the employer’s office was at Jefferson and Palafox, that’s where it was. And when I turned the corner, I just stopped the bus, go on in and got an application for fire dispatcher. And I took it with me, everybody got off the bus and I filled it out, come back when I made my second round I dropped it off. And that’s how I got that job as a dispatcher.

	O:	And how long did you work as a dispatcher?



	P:	About two years, I think it was. Two, two-and-a-half years. Yeah.



O:  Okay but it sounds like, earlier you said you had taken the firefighter’s exam earlier when you were a dispatcher?

P:  No, no that was after because I had, as I was dispatching, that’s when the job I was telling you about as a policeman came open, and that’s how all that came about. Because I had just missed the exam for the Firefighting I.

O:  Okay, oh I’m sorry. So you had never taken it? P:  No.





	O:	Only took it one time?



	P:	I took it twice. I took it once in Panama City and I failed it there. O:	In Panama City.

	P:	Mmhm. I had to go down there. That’s why you come up feeling prejudice or feeling out of place. They didn’t want you down there and they didn’t let you feel it, but I went in anyway and I took the test, I just didn’t do well. But I came back, and I talked to chiefs here, and you can take it twice. And one of the chiefs here calls down and got a guy from Tallahassee—he was coming to Pensacola for signing—and he came and gave me the test. And I took the test with him and I passed it. So that’s why I joined the fire department then.

	O:	So, you had thought earlier about being a firefighter in Panama City?



	P:	No, that’s just where you had to go to take the exam at that time. Because the one they were giving in Pensacola they had already given and the next one that came open was down there, for the state of Florida at least.

	O:	Wow, so once you began the new career, what kind of training did you have to do?

	P:	All of it. You learn how to pump fire trucks, you learn how to climb ladders. You learn all of the stuff you have to understand for firefighters. And I got to be pretty friendly with the guys—I got to know most of them before as a dispatcher. A lot of guys I got to know, so we teased and joked a lot and had a ladder, had a fifty-five foot bangdoor ladder where the bars come out on each side and you sit up in the middle and they tie ropes to it. And you have to go all the way up to the top of this thing, across it, and go down the other side. And the guys would tease





around. One of the guys, Patrick Harrington, we got to be real good friends. He said, “Ron, what you gonna do if we let go of this rope.” “I’mma fall. I don’t know what y’all gonna do, I got eight guys to blame if one man falls off a ladder.” [Laughter] But it was, it was enjoyable. It was hard work at first, once you got through all of that it was—

	O:	How did the shifts work? Did you work like twenty-four?



	P:	Twenty-four or forty-eight hours. When we first started, you’d go to work from five in the evening until five the next evening. And we finally, we had a union, we had that changed from eight in the morning to eight the next morning. Just to give you two full days off where there’s nothing in the middle of your day. And so they didn’t want to do it at first, but we got it changed. And it was twenty-four on, forty- eight off.

	O:	What kind of fires did you encounter?



	P:	House fires, woods fires, we had a whole jeep outstation—My first station was downtown, behind the main library, downtown. And that was No. 1 Fire Station and everybody gets stationed there when they get onboard. Then I switched to No. 3, which is out here on Summit. I don’t know how many years—out there. But over there we had an old jeep, and there’s woods all around that area and you had woods fires every once in a while, and you had to go out and take the jeep.

And it had an old, big thing on the back of it, the pump, and you take it through the woods, put the fires out, and come back. But that was during woods fires, that’s the only time we used the jeep. [Laughter]

	O:	That sounds dangerous!





	P:	Oh, it was. But then after like I said, I don’t know how many years I stayed in Station 3, I was to say like seven, eight, maybe ten years. And then my last twelve years I did Station 7, which is the airport.

	O:	The airport?



	P:	Yeah, specializing in aircraft. My last years, that’s where I went. O:	That’s hard, did you have to take special training for that?

	P:	Yeah. All aircraft, you have to go to the aircraft school. I went to—where is it, what’s the name of that school…? God.

	O:	Because they have different fuels, combustible?



	P:	Yeah, I’m trying to think of where I went to school… my mind is really gone, I’m getting old.

	O:	Was it in Pensacola?



	P:	No, it’s in Alabama. It was in… God. O:	That Air Force base?

	P:	No. It’s a college. O:	Is it Birmingham or? P:	No…

	O:	Maller?



	P:	No it was a big college and I’m trying to think of the name of it.



	O:	There’s the University of Alabama at Birmingham, I’m trying to think of the— University of Alabama: Tuscaloosa. Auburn, Tuskegee, I’m trying to think of the ones I know about. Huntsville?

	P:	Tuskegee… what’s the name of the school?







O:

So Tuskegee is a school, it’s historically Black, it’s in the South.

P:

No, this is another school. I’m drawing a blank.

O:

I do that too. What are the other big schools in Alabama?

C:

I don’t know that much about--

O:

Yeah, I’m trying to figure it out, let’s see.

P:

It was a Black college there also.

O:

Was it in Montgomery?

P:

Not Montgomery, no.

O:

But there was a Black school?

P:

Yeah, we used to go, I’d take—God, Ronaldhousen, Billbird,

O:

Oh—by Tupelo?

P:

No.

O:

It is like Jacksonville State?

P:

The biggest one, the biggest one in… God…

O:

And not in Mobile?

P:

No, not in Mobile. I don’t know how many hours, four hours, five hours from



here?

O:

Well that’s around—like Montgomery is how many hours from here?

P:

A couple hours but that’s going the other way. Went though Mobile going that



was.

O:

So it’s not University of South Alabama?

P:

LSU, I’m sorry.

O:

Oh, LSU, alright, different state, LSU.







P:

That’s where it was, LSU, God!

O:

Yeah because then you have LSU and the HBCU there is—

P:

That’s near Ronaldhousen, I can’t think of the name of the school—

O:

Dillard?

P:

No it’s not Dillard.

O:

Yeah, whatever. [Laughter] I should know this.

P:

I had a motorhome and we used to go there for, Ron went to school there until



he graduated, his son graduated there, and we’d go every year for the tailgate.

O:

Yeah, yeah because it’s a big football school too.

P:

Yeah, yeah, yeah.

O:

Gosh, it’s the HBCU in Louisiana.

C:

Let’s see—[typing on keyboard]

O:

Just do HBCU Louisiana, and there’s only like four or five in the entire state.



There’s—and you’re right, it is a big football—

P:

We always played Florida A&M. We’d always go up there for that big rivalry



there, yeah. Southern!

O:

Southern, yeah that’s it. Southern.

C:

Southern A&M University—

P:

Yeah, that’s it. Southern University.

O:

And that’s near LSU.

P:

Yeah, ones on one side of town the other’s on the other side of town. [Laughter]

C:

What’s their mascot? Do you know what their mascot it?

P:

It’s a spotted jaguar or something like that.





	C:	It says like yellow—



	P:	Yeah something like that, yeah. C:	It’s close to LSU.

	P:	Yeah, that’s not too far from it, yeah. One on one side of the interstate and the other on the other side of the railroad track. Yeah. But yeah, they have a fire college there. LSU does. And it’s really a great school. They have really good training, they have a mock-up airplane that you can go in and they can control the fire and you fly all around you and you have to dip the hose in and put it out. So yeah.

	O:	Damn, that’s scary.



	P:	If you sit up right, it’s not. And you got a hose and you have--they turn it up, it gets hot in there, it gets a little scary but as long as you keep thinking that you’re gonna knock it down and it’s under control, you’re okay.

	O:	Right.



	P:	But it flares back up and all that kind of stuff. But it was, yeah.



	O:	So Mr. Preer what was your, you’re working at the different stations, what’s your career path? I’m not familiar with the steps of a firefighter—

	P:	Rank.



	O:	Rank, yeah.



	P:	You’ve got firefighter, lieutenant, captain, chief, and the big chief. You have four assistant chiefs, you have chief of inspections, something like that, but my highest rank was lieutenant and I never put a lot of effort into making captain because I make more money than most captains because I could make overtime





and captains couldn’t. And I was trying to make money, I wasn’t trying to— [Laughter]. So, the captains couldn’t work overtime, I could work twenty-four hours overtime. I might work forty-eight hours overtime just whatever you can get, you get. And the captains couldn’t do that, so during that time it just wasn’t feasible for me. And I took the test a couple times, like I said I just didn’t put any effort in there.

	O:	Did you have a family by this point or did you? P:	Yeah. Yeah.

	O:	So you probably had to think about your family?



	P:	Yeah. I got married and was married twice. My first wife was Deborah Kennedy and we had one son, and then we got a divorce after two years and I think I was single for about five years and I got married again. I married Sandra Boyd and we have one daughter. And I have six grandkids.

	O:	Nice.



	P:	Four kids live here in Pensacola, two live in Vancouver. O:	Washington or Canada?

	P:	Vancouver, Canada. He’s a border patrolman, he works for the United States but he lives in Canada.

	O:	Wow. So in those days, kind of thinking about your career, so you were a firefighter from, when did you start?

	P:	[19]73. [19]74, about then.



	O:	Does that count the time you were a dispatcher? P:	It did.





	O:	Okay so you started as a dispatcher in like [19]70? P:	Yeah, [19]72, [19]71.

	O:	Okay and then you retired in 2000— P:	2005.

	O:	[20]05, wow. Over that long period of your career, how did the fire department here change over that stretch?

	P:	We had a lot of guys that were prejudiced. Those guys, you just treated them like they wanted to be treated. And the other guys, you got to be friends with and—I don’t remember the years now, but I was a president of a Black Firefighters Association and one time by default I was president of the White Firefighters Association. [Laughter] One of the guys that I was really friends with, when he ran, I ran as his vice and then he got mad and quit which made me president of the union. Well, some of the guys did not like it at all. But it didn’t last six months or eight months in there. But everything was going good and smooth, it ran smoothly and they had a re-election and I didn’t run.

	O:	So how long did the Black firefighters union last until?



	P:	They still have a Black Firefighters Association. It’s still going on. O:	But its not at all like collective bargaining?

	P:	No, no. Because they’re in the regular union so the association that we were in, the Black Firefighters Association, it’s a world-round and we just joined it—I’m trying to remember, the highest amount of firefighters that we had, I think I want to say ten at the most.





	O:	Okay, but originally did the Black firefighters association, did it ever do involve in like collective bargaining or it was more of a professional?

	P:	It was more of a professional thing, we didn’t do collective bargaining with the city. Yeah, because we were in the other union that did collective bargaining with the city.

	O:	The International Association—



	P:	707. Yeah. They do all of the collection, all of the bargaining and that stuff. Some of the guys that was in there got out because the union started doing integration and stuff and the union decided to go with some people—Black guys—that was against integration. Some of them like John, John had it for a little while, John Newton. And the rest of us kind of stayed behind in there.

	O:	Tried to equalize through the union? P:	Yeah.

	O:	That’s hard though because if you had—In previous years I’ve interviewed teachers, Black police officers, Black letter carriers in different southern towns and they all had their own Black associations. And some of them were very, pretty powerful. But then you talk about integration in the early [19]70s, you have to join the White organizations, whether it’s letter carriers, teachers, they may not want you in it.

	P:	Exactly, yeah. When we joined, they didn’t mind us joining because you pay dues and the more people they had in the more votes they had. So they didn’t give us a hard time about joining, we joined from very early.

	O:	They didn’t want you in leadership?





	P:	No, they didn’t want you to be too far up in there, yeah. They didn’t want you to be president of their union. But like I said, mine was just a freak accident.

	O:	Were you an officer at other times in the local, for the union?



	P:	707? Yeah. I did it once with Don Williams, that’s the guy that was running and he made it and he asked me to be his vice. And I did. But now, I wasn’t interested in running. And John Newton and I started the Black Association.

	O:	What year did you start that? Like shortly after you started as a firefighter or? P:	No, this was a while back. I’m trying to remember, that was—

	O:	Like maybe after you’d been in about ten years or? P:	Yeah, about six to eight years after we’d been in.

	O:	Okay, and then why did you start it at that point? Was it?



	P:	It was to get more information and then how to better yourself as a Black firefighter. We were trying to figure out what was going on and what help we could get from the association.

	O:	And that’s a national organization? P:	Mmhm.

	O:	Okay.



	P:	So that was… I’m surprised you guys haven’t interviewed John Newton.



	O:	No, we would love, if he would like to be interviewed we would love—we’re in town, I mean this is, we were doing interviews yesterday at the American Legion post up in the town—Is it Cantonment?

	P:	Cantonment, yeah.





	O:	And so you know and I’ve known Teneyotta for a long time, so we could come back at any point.

	P:	Yeah, okay.



	O:	I would love to learn more too about, you know, the Black Firefighter’s Association, it’s very interesting.

	P:	John is more, he knows more about it than I do. But he would be interesting to talk to.

	O:	This is going to sound like a naïve, dumb question because I’ve done oral histories in a lot of towns but there’s a kind of White prejudice here that’s just more aggressive somehow. Like how do you—and it speaks, you know, because you’ve been talking about it, like why is it so, in your opinion, so hard to?

	P:	Just the way people were brought up in the day and they still don’t want to shake it. They still want to keep some of the prejudices. When I finally decided—my wife and I bought a house. At that time, it was [19]74 [19]75… the realtor we talked to, I said I want to go anywhere but Cordova Park. Did not want to be, it’s a real nice section in Pensacola. And I just didn’t want to go over there because at the time I knew there was a lot of drug activity from all the young kids over there and I knew about it and the police that I knew and stuff told me about it. So, I said, “That’s not where I want to go.” But it ended up, I looked at all these houses people showed me, and she’s like, “I have one more house I want to show you. I know it’s not where you want to be.” And she took us to Cordova Park, and I ended up buying a house. So that’s where I ended up, up in there for forty-two years in that house. But it turned out best for me.





	O:	Residential segregation here is still pretty intense.



	P:	It is. Yeah. When I moved into Cordova Park, they had a big meeting in my neighborhood about they were gonna have to start moving because too many Blacks had moved in—there was three. There was a doctor that lived down the street from us, and that was Black, I bought a house and a guy that was retired from the military, the house on the corner up there was a Black guy. And he was a major out of the army. And they had this big meeting—

O:  The neighborhood association? P:  Yeah, they were gonna bailout. O:  They didn’t invite you?

	P:	Oh no. It was funny because I think one of them moved. I think he moved because he was being transferred, I don’t think he moved because—And then, it worked out great for me, I have great neighbors. I know all my neighbors, my neighbors know me. One time I think I had five sets of keys to my neighbor’s houses. And then I just got to know all my neighbors and I enjoyed it. And you don’t, I don’t know, you know it’s there, the prejudice. Some of them are, some of them aren’t, but most of them are pretty nice people.

	O:	So has Cordova Park changed over the years? Are the more African American families there now?

	P:	Oh yeah, all over now in different places.



	O:	Yeah, I’m just not familiar, where is Cordova Park in Pensacola? Is that to the north of here?





	P:	Northeast. If you left here, you go right straight across the other side of 9th Avenue, you’ve been to the mall or know where the mall is?

	O:	No.



	P:	You know where the airport is? O:	Oh yes, yeah, the airport.

	P:	If you’re in the airport, Cordova Mall is at the end of the runway on the other side. Langley, which this street is Langley, if you go straight down Langley you’d be at one end of the airport. And if you got this little way down the other side, that’s Summit. That’s the other, Cordova Park is over off Summit.

	O:	The last time we were here we did most of our interviews at the Chappie James Museum, but yeah it was interesting because people would mention names, residentially, we should have a map with us so as people are talking—

	P:	You can see where you are, yeah.



	O:	But yeah it’s interesting because whenever in Pensacola I talk with people, it kind of reminds me a little bit of Birmingham or Jacksonville is kind of similar. Where people talk about—I mean, you know Jacksonville—you go there and the residential segregation is still very—

	P:	Prominent, yes.



	O:	Exactly, yeah.



	P:	Yeah and like I said, it’s that way here. The poor section of town is still mainly Black. But it’s just, I don’t know what’s gonna change that. They did the housing thing where they had Pensacola Village, these are apartment buildings they built for indigent Blacks at the time.





C:   Public housing?



P:   Public housing, yeah.



O:  How’s the, in your opinion Mr. Preer, how’s the city leadership been over the years. Like have you seen changes, more open or?

P:  Good, bad, and different. Yeah, there’s been some decent changes. We’ve had some good guys, we’ve had some people that—the guy that’s in now is a great guy, I think he’s a great guy.

O:   The mayor?



P:   Yeah.



	O:	Okay, who is the mayor? P:	Grover Robinson.

O:   Okay.



	P:	He’s a nice guy, he works for minorities, he tries to make everything—He tries to include everybody, every inclusive. So, it makes it easier, he’s easy to talk to if you want to go down and talk to him. But the city is changing. The fire chief now is a woman. And I never thought I’d see that but—

	O:	Wow. When did the department begin to hire women? P:	What year was that? Hmm…

	O:	In the [19]80s?



	P:	Sometime in the [19]80s, yeah. I was trying to think of the first one they hired, I can’t remember.

	O:	That would have been another challenge for some people--





	P:	Yes, it was. Because you had, we had the women and they had to sleep, everybody had stalls, you had these little walls, and the bed was in between two stalls. They had the same problem with the bathroom because they had no separate bathroom for girls, so they had to put the latches on the door so when the girls go in they can latch the door.

	O:	Okay.



	P:	And a lot of the guys didn’t want the girls to be hired when they passed the test. They paid their dues, they did their job, and they made it. I don’t know how many they got now, six, eight girls out there.

	O:	Because you know, you talked about the danger, especially the woods fires, what were some of the most dangerous fires you ever had to work with?

	P:	House fires, the house fires, yeah. Because you go in and depending on how much information you get going in, the house fires are the most dangerous because you don’t know what’s happening or what’s going to fall on your or whatever. And two-story houses are terrible, you’re always trying to figure out how you’re gonna get away from two-story houses. As a firefighter, when you go into a room, that’s the first thing you want to do is check your exits. And that’s what you want to be able to get out if it’s burning.

	O:	Did you have someone you could talk to about, say, the blueprints for a structure?

	P:	No, nah.



	O:	That’s probably like in big cities.





	P:	In big buildings, yes. But the houses, now. When you get to a housefire you just have to figure out, go outside of it, look around it, and you had a radio contact and they can pretty well tell you, you know, but usually you just attack wherever the fire was, that portion of the house or portion of the building, that’s where you do it. I worked the train derailment we had here at hydrous ammonia. We had a bad derailment here.

	O:	Oh, I think I heard about that. What year was that? That was like—but that made the national news.

	P:	Yeah that was on national—[19]80 something. O:	I think they made a movie about that.

	P:	I don’t think so, I don’t know. O:	That must have been scary.

	P:	Yeah, it was scary. Yeah. As long as you were going in the right direction, you’re okay. You keep it off of you, that hydrous ammonia, because it will burn you if you’re hit with that. Some of the guys got it on them, it was—

	O:	So describe that—the scene. Because I remember hearing about it but it was so—

	P:	It was on the waterfront on Scenic Highway, the train came around and it tilted and lost a couple, turned over, and one of the tanks got punctured. And it was right by this house, two kids, I think the parents died and the two kids survived for a while. They blocked off the streets a couple miles back to keep everybody away. Luckily, we had the wind blowing away from us, across the water. It wasn’t coming at us. But it was still, every once in a while, the wind would blow and you





could get a feel of it. If you had you mask and all your gear on, but anything that was open where a little spot was open you could feel it if the wind blew back your way.

	O:	The ammonia?



	P:	Yeah. The ammonia, yeah, it burns you. And that was pretty scary for a while. O:	How long did it take to put that out?

	P:	That took about all night long. It was an all-nighter. We went there at that time in the afternoon, late in the afternoon, and we just stayed until the next day.

	O:	Wow. Because you mentioned there was several people killed--



	P:	Yeah, there was people in that house that it happened by the house that the parents were killed. I think they ran outside and tried to get to the car, and they got, the ammonia just—When they ran back in the house and put the kids inside but the kids got burned too, they got… it was bad.

	O:	Wow.



	P:	I worked airplane crashes, that plane that we had crash here, the air jet plane that crashed here, that was bad. Blew the mom and the kid out the back door.

	O:	It crashed into a house?



	P:	Yeah, right over here actually. And then we had one plane to land that actually broke in half, right on the runway.

	O:	Was it a military plane?



P:   No, it was a big American Airline, he landed so bad it broke the thing in half and the tower didn’t even know anything was wrong because he landed, then all of a sudden, he seen people running.





	O:	Out of the plane?



	P:	Yeah. And that’s how they knew they had something wrong, what happened was the plane had actually broken in half.

	O:	Wow. Was it on fire?



	P:	No, it was on the runway, but it was not on fire. He killed everything; he knew he did when he landed he hit too hard.

	O:	But people were killed there?



	P:	Yeah. No, nobody was! The worst fire I’ve ever been to was a trailer fire. And we lost two small kids, small kids get to you. And the parents had rented a storage unit, something, the mother came back and the house was fully engulfed. Killed the two kids, that was—

	O:	Terrible.



	P:	Yeah.



	O:	Is a trailer more combustible than a regular house?



P:  Much more. Much more. The trailer burned up because of the stuff they use to make the inside, the wood they use to make the inside and they prime with this stuff, it’s just like a settlement that burns real fast.

O:   So, is that like composite wood, not real wood?



	P:	Yeah. Real thin, it’s like plywood but it’s real, real thin. It has a smell to it. It’ll burn like cotton; it will burn fast. But yeah, trailers are terrible. That’s the difference because you can’t have trailers in the city of Pensacola.

	O:	You can’t?



P:   No.





	O:	Wow.



	P:	Yeah. And this lady had a trailer, it was right on the verge, but it was in the city, over by Washington High School. But they had it tucked back in the back back there.

	O:	That’s interesting, I had never thought about that because Florida is a state full of trailers everywhere, but you’re not allowed to have them in Pensacola?

	P:	Not in the city of Pensacola. You can have them in the county, you’re right next to the county here. You might go two blocks down the road and see a trailer.

	O:	Okay.



	P:	But not in the city limits.



	O:	Yeah, but they’re just so combustible I guess that’s the issue. P:	Yeah.

	O:	Wow. Did you see, with the, I know we’re talking up a lot of your time and just a couple more questions. So in terms of the types of fires, like over time they’re using different building materials, did you see a change in the kind of fires over the years?

	P:	Yeah, because the more as time went on, they started making stuff a lot faster, a lot more combustible materials, until they finally started making them regulate what type of material had to be fire retardant. And they’re finally starting to do that now, but yeah it was rapid there for a while.

	O:	Mmhm.



	P:	Like the old Christmas trees they used to buy, they weren’t fire retardant—the plastic ones.





	O:	Oh, the plastic ones, yeah.



	P:	And they have the stuff in them know that slows them down. They still burn but not as fast.

	O:	Because Pensacola has a lot of old houses.



	P:	Lot of ‘em. East Hill is loaded with old houses, yeah. It’s one of the prime places to live in Pensacola, East Hill.

	O:	Okay. Do you ever have to put out any fires up there?



	P:	Ever in East Hill? Oh yeah. Yeah, those old houses, when they start burning they burn.

	O:	Because they’re mainly wood and—



	P:	Ooh, those fried out. Those old hundred-year-old, ninety-year-old houses. Yeah, they re-do some of them, but they try to keep a lot of stuff to make it look still— But—

	O:	Yeah, you wouldn’t want to go up to the second floor in one of those houses. P:	[Laughter] No, no.

	O:	What were some—you worked downtown when you started out though as a firefighter, were there any big fire there?

	P:	Yeah. Downtown was the oldest station in town and also it was the older houses, the more fires you had. The older sections, they just, people just had the old wires in them, people used old fireplaces that weren’t, you now, it’s just old buildings, they burn. We used to run quite a—Downtown you ran a lot.

	O:	Wow. That must have been hard work.





	P:	Yeah it was. The biggest fire downtown I can remember was it was a big fire at a house and we just got it all knocked down and looked up the street and it’s a place, you could see smoke. And it was a gym. A big gym they had here. And it was old. By the time we pulled the hose up and run up there, it was full engulfed, yeah, and burned to the ground.

	O:	Did you have in Pensacola like they had in cities during those times, like insurance fires?

	P:	Oh yeah. People try to burn stuff down. Oh yeah. Yeah but the biggest one we caught on that one was—What’s the name of that strip club downtown? There’s a club downtown, they rented it, Milk jugs, and you tie them up hanging so far down, and you put about that much gasoline in each one of them. All hang them all over the building, and then put a candle in the corner and light it. And when that fume finally gets down to hit that candle, it explodes. But sometimes we’d have a call, for some reason, to that building. And I’m trying to think, they said it was—I don’t remember what the smell was. But we went in the building and we went in and a couple guys had those things hanging in there and you could actually smell the gas through your mask. That’s how strong it was. And we all backed out, and found the candle, the candle had went out. And that was about the worst thing I’ve ever seen somebody try to do.

	O:	Yeah, that seems pretty easy to figure out.



	P:	Well, it wouldn’t have been if it had—you know when you’re misting line is, if you took a cup of gasoline and you know the old sprayers they used to have a long time ago, they sprayed for bugs?





	O:	Oh right, right.



	P:	If you took a cup of gasoline and poured it in there and misted around in a room, that’s the equivalent to three sticks of dynamite.

	O:	So if it had worked—



	P:	You would have found the building, nothing else, you’d have parts all out in the bay.

	O:	Because I remember reading in the early [19]70s, in the South Bronx, they had these enormous insurance fires and then some of the developers were in cahoots.

	P:	Right, they’re all in, yeah. Just trying to find out who’s doing it, that’s the thing.



You know.



	O:	Yeah. Did you have an inspection?



	P:	We had an inspection, yeah. You had to have a state inspector. If we find something suspicious in the burn pattern, we check the burn pattern. If it looks like it’s an accelerant that’s been used, we call the state in and the state has an inspection. They come do all that stuff. We have inspectors also, but they look at it and if they think the same thing then they’ll go ahead and call the state, the state comes in a takes care of it.

	O:	Wow. Well Mr. Preer, we’ve taken up well over an hour of your time— P:	That’s alright.

	O:	Are there any things that you want to talk about we haven’t touched upon? P:	No, not that I know of.





	C:	I’ve got a question. So yesterday I was speaking to Teneyotta about she was mentioning how there’s a history of Creole firefighters in the area?

	P:	She told me about that, and I was not familiar with the Creole firefighters.



	C:	Well, what about like—because you said growing up yourself, you couldn’t be a firefighter, right?

	P:	Yes.



	C:	So you didn’t even know of anybody--? P:	That was a firefighter?

	C:	Yeah.



	P:	No.



	C:	Nobody?



	P:	The policeman, no. During my later years, during my teenage time, we started to see deputy sheriffs that were minorities. But as far as being a policeman or a fireman or nothing like that—

	C:	So, fireman and police would be more or less in the same category? Like thinking about them in a way.

	P:	Well jobwise, yeah. You think, I’m gonna save— C:	Public work?

	O:	Yeah, because what I think Teneyotta was talking about is you’d have to go back to the nineteenth century, the 1800s, and then they had, back when they had horse-drawn fire trucks. And I think she had identified that back then they had a Creole Department.

	P:	I don’t remember.





	O:	See you wouldn’t have known that because none of us would have because that was like, we’re talking like 1870s. 1880s.

	P:	Right, yeah.



	O:	So that was horse-drawn, I think she was saying, when the Creole—



	P:	Yeah, because I knew they had one in Mobile. In Pritcher, I knew they had a real fire station here.

	O:	Okay.



	P:	But I have never known here until she told me that, she mentioned that, and I was really shocked that we had never discussed it or never known about it. But she found it somewhere, and I said I was gonna look into it but I haven’t had a chance to.

	O:	Yeah, that’s a fascinating history. Well, it’s kind of like the American Legion post yesterday we were talking about—Because they’re charter, the post 193, the first charter says, “Colored Veteran’s Association.” I think, 1945. And we were trying to figure out, well, who were the first, there are names of the people who signed the charter, but then we were talking about the fact that, I mean, Pensacola had a lot of World War I veterans. And then also Pensacola at one point had a lot of Union Army veterans, after the Civil War. That’s why I love history, because you can just keep digging. You start digging, and you just keep digging. But Mr.

Preer, this has been incredible, this has been like really informational, educational. People are gonna learn so much from this interview, so thank you.

	P:	Thank you very much.





[End of interview]





Transcribed by: Abby Lovett





	Audit Edit by:	Kasamba Kokayi April 23, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 3, 2021