AAHP 774; Gregg; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 774 Robbie Gregg 2-28-2020 Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on February 28, 2020 33 minutes | 23 pages



Abstract: Robbie Gregg reflects on his twenty-four years of service in the United States Navy. He explains joining the Navy in 1982 upon his graduation from high school, knowing his family was unable to afford his university tuition and hoping to receive funding from the G.I. Bill after his service. In his words, “I joined the Navy to pay for school, but I wanted to see the world.” With his high school success in electronics, he became a naval engineer. He describes ascending naval ranks as comparable to college life: “it’s all about studying.” Eventually, after his studying, Gregg became an E8, or a chief petty officer. He details the social changes that occurred during his service, including bans on facial hair and cigarettes and the introduction of women into military service. Additionally, he discusses racism on naval ships and explains his observation that racism was not tolerated by the Navy. Towards the end of his service, Gregg served as a drill instructor. He explains how his instruction differed from the instruction he had received, as greater attention was given to the mental stress of the recruits.

Asked if he would recommend joining the military to young people today, Gregg responds that he would not, because there are other funding opportunities to assist with university tuition, and he asserts that undergraduate educations provide more options later in life. He concludes by explaining the importance of American Legion Post 193—a veterans’ organization in which he is a member—and the services they perform for the community, such as providing food for people without houses and providing scholarships for Boys’ State.





Keywords: [American Legion; GI Bill; Navy; racism; Veterans History Project]



AAHP 774

Interviewee: Robbie Gregg Interviewer: Paul Ortiz Date: February 28, 2020



	O:	So, we’re here today with Mr. Robbie Gregg. G:	Yes, sir.

	O:	Thank you, Mr. Gregg, for taking time out of your schedule to talk to me. And we’re at American Legion Post one ninety-three in Pensacola, Florida. And Mr. Gregg, I wonder if you could start by telling me about what American Legion Post one ninety-three is all about.

	G:	Okay. I’m gonna take the historic route.



	O:	Okay. One of the reasons why I joined the American Legion, because there was always a—once I retired—it was a need to find something—a sense of purpose—something bigger than what I am, and to continue to serve. So, the American Legion itself, as I look at it, it is a vet organization, but I take it further than that. Many people don’t know the American Legion was the founders of the

G.I. Bill as we know it. And that gets glossed over a lot of times. So, we look at our benefits, and I like talking about this. Why would I join something like this? Because it is so historic as far as how they fought for the rights of the vets. They lobbied in Congress for vets. It was a no-brainer after that.

	O:	Yeah, exactly. So, on the way there, you joined the military. And what year did you join, and can you talk about boot camp and what that was like?

G:  Sure. I joined the Navy in the summer of 1982. I was still in high school. I had a scholarship to go to DeVry which was in New York across from New Jersey. My parents—we were poor. Three kids. Both parents weren’t at home, and I knew







they couldn’t afford to send us to school. The only other option was to go into the military. I specialized in electronics in high school, and my instructor, he pretty much, he was angry with me for a while, because he said, “You should have never joined.” But I had to find the means to go to school. So, I joined. Went to boot camp in Great Lakes.

	O:	Wow.



	G:	In the winter. Snow doesn’t stop anything. O:	No.

	G:	So, you just dig a tunnel, and you go to school walking back and forth. Boot camp was what it was. It was designed to break you down and reprogram you. Got on board with that. Got out. And I was fortunate enough to get a lot of schooling after that without having school other than high school. Went to school in San Diego for a couple of weeks. Came back. Went back. In Chicago, went to another school—a specialty school. And then they deployed me Christmas Day—around Christmas time—to Yokosuka, Japan. So, I joined the Navy to pay for school, but I wanted to see the world. I was a big show gun, back when Richard Chamberlain was there.

	O:	Oh, yeah.



	G:	Yeah.







O:  Okay. So, Mr. Gregg, growing up, did you have any elders who had been in the military, or did you have any older folks you knew who had been, you know, say Vietnam or Korea, World War II, or—

G:  I was born in South Carolina. So, all my uncles went to the army. O:  Okay.

G:  They were Vietnam era and World War II. I found out later that my grandfather was a machines maker in the Navy. He did one tour. So, aside from that, I had no one directly impacting me to get me to join.

O:  Okay. So, you knew about their service, but you never really heard many stories or—

G:   No, no.



O:  Okay. Growing up, though, could you ever have imagined going to the military? It sounds like it was really an economic decision in many ways.

G:   Pretty much.



O:   Okay.



	G:	As I look at it now, my life has always been structured, so it just seemed like a very good fit. And then the economics situation kind of solidified what needed to be done. I didn’t want to be a burden on my parents.

	O:	Right. Exactly.







	G:	And I wasn’t—You know, low income, first-generation college student. I was bussed when I lived in New York, so we didn’t have the advisors to tell you that you can go to college and here is the moneys that you can do. He didn’t.

	O:	Wow. So, in some ways joining the Navy is a chance for you, as you mentioned earlier, to kinda see the world. So, what did you see in those early years in the military that were kinda new to you or kind of different?

	G:	Different cultures. My first exposure to a foreign culture was in Sasago, Japan. Only people I knew in Yonkers, New York were people who spoke Spanish. My uncle—we called him Uncle Rudy—he was from Santo Domingo. So he spoke Spanish. But it was something. It was an eye-opener. It was really dramatic, but in a good way, to see different cultures and having to—I want to say—assimilate to being over there.

	O:	Okay. Did you work mainly on service vessels, shore, or what was your kind of— G:	Eighty-nine percent of my time in the military was on ships.

	O:	Okay. And what were some of the—for you—some of the early memorable experiences in terms of you learning like your MOS and learning your craft and everything.

	G:	If you assess white planes out of Yokosuka, Japan, when I finally caught up with it, those memorable experiences. Being a engineer. In engineering—there are three communities on a ship, and that’s who’s back there: engineering, combat systems, and deck. It fascinated me the fact that this three hundred—five hundred—foot vessel that had three hundred people on it could go out to sea for







weeks at a time, sustain itself, producing its own water proportion electricity. Then, I just kind of got into all of that.

	O:	Yeah.



	G:	It was truly a floating city. I mean, not a city, a town. O:	Right.

	G:	And to be a part of that, being I worked on the sensors and the navigation equipment to give the big picture view of how this thing works.

	O:	Yeah. Well, it must have been quite a—you know, growing up and hearing mainly men’s experiences, their first time out at sea, what an experience that must have been.

	G:	Yes.



	O:	Do you remember your first kind of deployment or your first—what that was like?



	G:	Yeah. It was exciting, because I’ve never been to a foreign country. And I was single. One of my nicknames was “Drifter.” I liked to think of myself as not having permanent roots. So, I can pick a bag up, and I can go. Being in the Navy, that’s how we lived. We lived out of a six-by-three-foot coffee locker, and all my worldly possessions are in there.

	O:	Wow.



	G:	I just thought it was exciting. You didn’t have to work on anything other than doing your job. But you got to visit different ports at least every two, three weeks.







	O:	Okay. Coming up through the ranks, who were some of the men who had an impact on you in terms of like—

	G:	Wow. Oh, man.



	O:	I mean, it could be like training, like learning your MOS, or just even acting, learning what it meant to be a sailor.

	G:	I think it was everyone. It was later on as I went up in rank that I started paying attention to the concept of a mentor. I take a little bit of everything. I was always taught you learn from everything. But the one that really stands out was a commanding officer I was under in Corpus Christi, Texas: Ben Irvine. And he gave me a perspective in life I keep to this day. He was a fair man. He was from Massachusetts. But he was always an observer, and he said to me one day—I used to have to pass his stateroom coming on the ship in the mornings—he said, “How’s everything going down there?” We have a rank structure. You can’t tell— you don’t dime your chief up. When I wouldn’t ask a question, he knew something was wrong, and he would fix it. But one day, he said to me, “You know why I don’t give you any awards?” He says, “cause you’re my number one sailor.” He’s told the Admiral this.

	O:	Wow.



	G:	He says, “Because you don’t need ‘em.” He says, “People who have awards, that’s what motivates them. You don’t need to be motivated.”

	O:	Wow.







	G:	And I’ve always used that from that point on.



	O:	That’s a lesson. So, can you talk about when you first saw—I’m assuming that when you’re coming up through the ranks, you’re becoming a petty officer, and you’re kinda moving up. Can you describe that process to someone who’s not familiar to the Navy system of promotion? How do you make petty officer, and then how do you ascend in rank?

	G:	In the Navy, it’s the same as college: it’s all about studying. The Navy really doesn’t give you a promotion after E4. You study and you take exams, along with other things, and if everything lines up, and if there’s an opening, then depending on how you scored in that ranking, you fill that slot.

	O:	Okay. And I’m assuming that you’re having to take supplemental or new courses to really keep up with your craft, or no?

	G:	You have the books there. All the materials are there with you when you’re out at sea. This is before the internet.

	O:	Okay.



	G:	Everything is with you, or you had to bring it with you. O:	Okay.

	G:	We had to read training manuals, is what we called it. So, each level of promotion in the petty officer rank, you assume a more responsibility and different types of equipment that you need to know how to operate or to fix.

	O:	Right.







	G:	So, you just study, study, study.



	O:	Yeah. What was your highest rate? G:	I was selected as E8.

	O:	Wow. That’s a high rate in the Navy. What were your responsibilities, even starting, say, as like an E5 or E6? And then, how do those responsibilities change in terms of leadership and the technical part of the craft as you move from, say, E5 to E8?

	G:	I think, early on in life, before I joined the Navy, I was a tall person. So in society, if you’re tall, you’re always looked upon as a leader. Even as a child, I was the youngest, but I was the tallest. So, I was held responsible from that point on for people who were shorter than me, who were, of course, older. Same thing happened in the Navy except that now the Navy gave me documentation about leadership. I can read about what constitutes leadership, and then I can apply it. They gave me a classroom to apply it directly, and I could make mistakes barring hurting someone.

	O:	Right. Now an E8, that a chief petty officer? G:	Chief, chief.

	O:	Alright. So, what’s the process to become a chief petty officer? G:	Selection board.

	O:	Okay.







	G:	And I was an exam-writer, so I’m very familiar with this. You take the exam as a E6, or a petty officer first class. You score high enough. Now, you have to put together a package. The package consists of what we like to call collateral duties and extracurricular things. If you had a degree, that gave you more points. And if you had extra duties, like you had a boy scout troop, or did a lot of extra service, they’d give you extra points. Collateral duties on the ship, I was a physical fitness coordinator. That’s more extra points. And each of those points added up along with your fitness report. And then they send that package to a board of other chief petty officers and above—

	O:	Okay.



	G:	—to select the best candidate for the job. O:	Okay. So, what did your package look like?

	G:	I didn’t really take my package. I sat as an E6 by choice probably for about eight years. I didn’t do anything. I just wanted to have a good time. Cause I promoted quickly. I came in as an E1. By my first enlistment, I was an E5, and that was just taking selections. I made E6 in under eight years.

	O:	Wow, that’s quick and amazing. But when you put that packet together, you had to have a lot of material in that packet.

	G:	Oh, absolutely. And you had people who helped you put it together. All kinds of guidance for it. Each year, you never knew what that board was looking for, because it was a mixture of different chiefs from around the fleet that got together.







	O:	Right. Is there a fraternity? Like I’ve known men of the Army culture. Is there a fraternity of chiefs in the Navy? Like are there boards? Are there things you do? Like you mentioned earlier selection committee. So, I’m assuming that there are senior chiefs who are on the selection committee.

	G:	Yes. You’re selected on that. And chief petty officer, for whatever reason, they are a fraternity.

	O:	Oh, okay.



	G:	When you’re promoted to chief petty officer, there’s an actual ceremony. There’s a training process for almost three months to become a chief petty officer.

	O:	Okay.



	G:	Yeah. Physical fitness, studying, lectures. They bring the selectees from different commands, depending on where you’re at, and you all study together and form that fraternity. Now, you don’t have to do that, but then you’re consider an E7, because the only requirement is that you get selected and advance. You don’t have to become part of the fraternity.

	O:	Wow. What was the social—and you mention going out to sea or being in different port of call, and obviously these are different environments than what you grew up with. Can you describe the social environment of the Navy in those years? Say in the [19]80s?

	G:	Those are the years when they were doing away with beards. Drinking was promoted. Cigarette smoking was still allowed in public.







	U:	You want something to drink? Water or anything? O:	Water would be fine, thank you.

	G:	It was a—compared to the environments now, it was not conducive to positive motivation. If you didn’t have a good foundation, moral foundation, you could find yourself slipping into those holes that you could not get out of. I was thankful ‘cause my parents gave me that moral foundation.

	O:	Right. So, there were a lot of—well, back then, were there any women that served on the ships in the [19]80s, or no? And when did that start?

	G:	That started in—I didn’t see women on the ships until I got on the Kitty Hulk Whereas most of the Black [inaudible 00:15:22] I was on were smaller ships. Putting women on ships required a lot of logistics that it couldn’t be accommodated.

	U:	Here you go, sir.



	O:	Thank you, I appreciate it. U:	Anything else?

	O:	No, sir. Now, you mentioned beards. I do remember hearing about this as a young man. Back then, though, like say in the [19]70s and even early [19]80s, you could have a beard. Now, when did that change and why did it change?

	G:	1985. It’s all about aesthetics in the military. You wanted a clean shave and a clean cut, because it’s about the representation around the world of the Navy. We had a—our marketing could not get away from the fact that the concept of a







drunken sailor. We’re rowdy. We bro-out a lot. We play hard, and we work hard. Now, you had to change that corporate view—

	O:	Okay.



	G:	—to sell it.



	O:	More clean cut? G:	Right.

	O:	Okay. Could you smoke on a vessel, though— G:	Yes.

O:  —back in the day? And then, did that stop? G:  It stopped by the [19]90s.

O:  Wow. I never thought about that. I remember in the Army seeing a letter—I think I was E5 by then—signed by Casper Weinberger, Secretary of Defense, “No more smoking allowed in the barracks.” That was a big deal.

	G:	Yep.



	O:	Huge deal.



	G:	It disrupted, but you know, we’re used to following orders. Of course, we didn’t about the letter, but for the most part smoking within, because on ships, the spaces are very enclosed.

	O:	Yeah.







	G:	So, I remember as a child, my father smoked. I can remember driving back and forth to South Carolina in a smoke-filled car. It didn’t mean anything to me, because that’s how I was raised.

	O:	Wow. But I never thought about that. So, now, US Naval vessels are like smoke- free zones?

G:  Except on the fantail, which is the back of the ship. O:  Okay, so you can still smoke there, but normally— G:  Nowhere else.

O:  Wow. That is intense. How many years of service, Mr. Gregg, did you put in? G:  Twenty-four.

O:   Twenty-four. Now, when you first went in, as you remember, did you plan to put in twenty plus years of service?

G:   No.



O:   Okay.



	G:	No. My focus was four years, get the GI Bill—which at the time was eight thousand dollars—and get out.

	O:	Okay. Why did you get out after four years? G:	It got to be easy.

	O:	Okay.







	G:	Where else can you go and travel the world and get a paycheck? Single. I’ll give it another four years. It was, I mean, I got promoted quickly. Give me another four years, I can select where—I’m all about travel. Most people didn’t want to. Navy says go here. Oh, no problem. Just sign it.

	O:	During that long tenure, did you ever think, “Oh, I’ll put in ten or twelve, I’m just gonna get out the next time,” or did you—

	G:	When I was on eighteen years, I started contemplating, “I think I’m gonna”— cause my twentieth was coming up. I was forty-two at the time. “I think it’s time to go out and be a civilian.”

	O:	Okay. What kind of job prospects were you thinking about then, in terms of career? Like shifting from Naval to civilian?

	G:	Like I said, in high school, I was very good at electronics. Radio, TV repair. And as technology changed, I watched it. In the Navy, you’re responsible for staying abreast of technology. What I started to see was that no one’s repairing anything anymore. It’s what they call [inaudible 00:19:05], which was if someone moved it off the shelf. If something broke, or the circuit caught on the shelf, you’d put it in the system and it’d up and running. So, TVs got smaller and thinner. You can’t fix em without micro-managerial repair, but it’s not cost-effective. I thought of, “Well, that’s not gonna be a viable career.” So, I switched over to a more training aspect, meaning being an instructor. I’d be doing training and leadership type of things.







O:  Okay. Did you do instruction at a school, or mainly on the ship? In other words, do you ever go and, say, take part in being a drill instructor?

	G:	Yes.



	O:	So, talk about that, what that was like going back to where you started.



G:  Okay. I was selected as an instructor in 1998 at Trident Training Facility. But I went to a formal school for instructor training, is what they call it. An advanced school. It was about three weeks long. It was in the north of Virginia.

O:  Where I was born. Northport. G:  No kidding!

O:   Yeah.



	G:	I was always terrified to go there. O:	[Laughter] Okay, yeah.

	G:	But I went there. I graduated, which was probably one of the hardest schools I’ve ever been to, ‘cause I was terrified of public speaking. Stationed at Trident Training Facility as an instructor. I taught people how to be instructors.

O:   Wow.



	G:	And that process took a while. I got certified as a Master Training Specialist—this was a yearlong process.

	O:	Okay. Now, by training as an instructor, you mean, Mr. Gregg, in terms of instructing, like electronics?







	G:	No.



	O:	Or the basic drill?



	G:	Yeah, they taught you how to teach.



	O:	Okay, I see. So, when you finish teaching me, then I go and work in a Navy boot camp.

	G:	Right, in your specialty, yes.



	O:	Okay. What were the main elements or goals that you were trying to inculcate in trainers?

	G:	Model design behavior, meaning that whatever you do is what your students see.



If they don’t see a person who has a straight gig line, clean press uniform, speaks with authority, and knowledgeable, then they’re gonna do the exact same thing you do. So, you can’t hold them accountable for something that you’re not being held accountable for yourself.

	O:	Oh, in this society, that’s kind of a tough sell, right? So, how long did you do that? G:	Three years.

	O:	Three years. Talk about what you feel were your successes and then areas that you feel you didn't succeed as much in.

	G:	My successes was I obtained the level of a chief petty officer. I kinda feel that I failed in the sense that it took me so long. I was on a trajectory really quick, and I just stopped.







	O:	Wow. Did the culture—you talked about earlier beards or smoking, like life of a ship, women began serving on service vessels. Talk about, if you could, the culture of the Navy. Did it change?

	G:	Oh, absolutely. From the time beards left, you started to see a change. My most memorable moment was—I never realized that there was racism. It was never overtly put in my face, living in New York. But I watched on my first ship, this first class named “Mongrel”—that’s his nickname. I thought he was a very cool guy. But I was also the DJ on the ship’s entertainment system, and they were playing music on the mass decks, cafeteria, and they were playing some RnB—or rap when rap really started coming out—and Mongrel made a statement I heard one day, and it kinda hit me. I didn’t know how to process it. But he said to some of the E1s—I was a E4 by that time—” Turn off that jungle music.” Now, remember [19]83, [19]84, I wasn’t exposed to anything, but what I saw happened next, kind of gave me the concept that the Navy is probably the best thing going when it comes to civil rights. They didn’t put up with it. When he made that statement, it wasn’t two hours later Mongrel was a E5. They do not put up with anything like that. I have never seen anything like that. So, to me, that was the epitome of fairness. No matter who you are, I am being judged on my skills and talents alone. There was no affirmative action. It was if I was a person who doing their job then you had to rate me equal.

	O:	And it doesn’t work that way in most of the society. G:	No, no. And I see that now.







	O:	Wow, that’s an amazing story. Did you see other cases of racism or social issues came up in the Navy?

	G:	Yeah. Once again, I didn’t have it in my face, so I was pretty ignorant to racism. My parents took me out of South Carolina when I was six. I would go back during the summers, and you hear family talk about things that happened, but you’re a kid. So, racism, knowing what I know now, it was there, but it was kept at bay, because they knew that there’d be ramifications for any kind of overtly racial instances. No, we self-segregate as a society. I think Dr. Craftswell says, “Why do the Black kids eat in the cafeteria?” And we do the same thing on the ships.

And I didn’t know these things until I got to—I like to read. And so you got to see those things. And we put ourselves in these pockets of culture to maintain that comfort. And I’ve always seen that.

	O:	Mr. Gregg, so you went into the Navy in 1982? G:	Mmhm.

	O:	And then twenty-four years later, you retired. What had changed in the Navy by the time you retired? What had stayed the same? What were some of the big changes that you saw in those twenty-four years?

	G:	The bureaucracy changed for a lot of people. I don’t have any date to support this, but I see it now, and I saw this happening when I got out. When you started letting the inmates take over the asylum, you tied the hands of the guards. So, if I’m the trainer, if I’m the person who’s supposed to train you to be a better sailor, and you decided you didn’t want to, that was during the era also they had what







they called “stress cards.” When I went to boot camp, you could yell. My drill instructor yelled at me. He didn’t put his hand on me, but he yelled. But in the boot camp, afterwards, you held a stress card up, they can’t yell anymore. You have to leave them alone. It’s timeout. And that got to the fleet. The fleet— engineering and on the flight deck—is a very volatile place. There’s no time for your feelings.

	O:	No stress cards.



	G:	No. An F-16 doesn’t care how tough you are or how sensitive you are. When you get sucked into the intake, because you’re not paying attention, I have to explain to your parents why I didn’t take care of you, along with everyone else. It was hard to do that balance with these young men and women with grace that I didn’t have. I’m passionate, or I’ll say something, I’ll express myself in a way that you’re not accustomed to. Now, I have to back off of you, because now I’m being abusive.

	O:	And when did you start seeing that change?



	G:	2000, when I went back to the fleet after being an instructor.



	O:	Okay. And back to the fleet is—when you say back to the fleet— G:	Back to the ship.

	O:	Back to the ship. Okay, okay. So, in other words, basic training in 2000 is very different than it was in 1982. Okay. I never heard of the stress cards.







	G:	It was a brief moment, but they evolved it from a stress card to if a person says that they’re stressed you have to leave ‘em.

	O:	Okay. But they actually, at one point, had a card? G:	Mmhm.

	O:	Very interesting.



	G:	Back in the late [19]80s.



	O:	I don’t want to make any value judgments, but that’s a very different basic training than I remember. [Laughter]

	G:	Exactly. If we look at the society now, we doing thee same thing now. Young men, more specially, African American men, there’s no structure in their lives. There’s no ramification for your actions. It could be because of a single parent household. It could be because society has become kind of gentler, I don’t know. But I think there’s a direct correlation to the levels of crime we see.

	O:	Mr. Gregg, I know I’ve taken up a lot of your time. If you were counseling now or talking to a younger person, say someone who’s a junior in high school or something, and they approach you and say, “I’m thinking about the military.” How would you respond?

	G:	No.



	O:	No.



	G:	Don’t do the military.







	O:	Why not?



	G:	It’s a different military now, for one. Knowing the resources I have that I didn’t know about beforehand, I would counsel them to go to college. College can be paid for in many different ways. After you get your degree and you decide to go, then I would say go. But don’t make that the only choice you have. There are other choices.

	O:	Okay. So, think about other choices in addition to—because when you were in high school, it sounds like people didn’t tell you, “Hey, you can do this, or you can do that.” You were smart enough to go to college, obviously, but those options weren’t necessarily there.

	G:	It was never explained to me. O:	Right.

	G:	I run a trio program, which is a long term for vets. So, I help vets get prepared for college. But there’s a traditional trio program called Upward Bound. Had I known about an Upward Bound back then, I probably wouldn’t have gone into the Navy right away.

	O:	We talked a little bit, Mr. Gregg, about this in the beginning, but can you talk about what this post—American Legion Post One-Ninety-Three—means to the community?

	G:	Probably doesn’t mean much other than it’s a drinking hall, for the community outside. We do a terrible job of marketing. We do a tremendous amount of public







and community service—unbelievable—but the general population doesn’t know that.

	O:	So, if there’s one thing—or it could be more than one thing—but at least one thing that you would like people in the community to know about American Legion Post One-Ninety-Three, what would it be?

	G:	You’d be surprised at some of the stuff that we do up here and some of the national programs that the National American Legion has mandated us to do. The post itself—American Legion itself—it’s primary focus is to take care of vets. You can’t have American Legion without vets.

	O:	Right.



	G:	Its other four pillars, as they call them, Americanism, children and youth—I keep forgetting ‘em. But we provide a no-cost trip—all expenses paid trip—to the capitol. Boys’ State. That’s where those young men from the community—high schoolers—are taught how their government works for an entire week. And then there’s a women’s component, too: female—Girls’ State. We feed the homeless. We get scholarships for them. A lot of people don’t know that. Of course, we’re in the parade and everything. We like to have a good time.

	O:	Right.



	G:	But we work hard, and we play hard.



	O:	Excellent. Well, Mr. Gregg, I know I’ve taken up a lot of your time, but are there any things you’d like to add that we haven’t talked about.







	G:	No. I’m glad to be a part of this, and I appreciate you all doing this. O:	Well, I appreciate you. I really appreciate it, sir.

[End of Interview]



Transcribed by: Emma Donnelly



Audit-edited by: Sandra Romero, March 11, 2021 Final-edited by: Sandra Romero, March 15, 2021