AAHP 113; Sanders; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 113 Kenny Sanders African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 21, 2010 17 minutes | 12 pages



Abstract: Kenny Sanders describes his and his parent’s experiences going to Jerkins High School in Perry, Florida. He also offers some description of his grilling practices at the Jerkins Reunion where the interview takes place. He shares some of his family history as well. Mr. Sanders reflects on the continued problems of racism and race relations in Perry, and offers thoughts on the value of the reunions.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School] Standards:

SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 113

Interviewee: Kenny Sanders Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 21, 2010



	W:	This is Marna Weston with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the Jerkins Center in Perry, Florida on August 21, 2010. I’m speaking with Mr. Kenny Sanders. Mr. Sanders, thank you for speaking with me.

	S:	Mhmm. It’s nice to talk to you. What’s going on?



	W:	Well, first let’s talk about this barbeque you’ve got going here! [Laughter] It smells good.

	S:	You can get a piece of it and taste it.



	W:	Well I always try to make sure—you can tell I check out the food a little bit. [Laughter]

	S:	But this grilled, so it ain’t doing nothing for you. W:	Okay.

	S:	I’ll help.



	W:	Okay.



	S:	I’ll help.



	W:	Well, tell me about it.



	S:	Well, it’s just chicken, you what I’m saying? We grilling. I got a little smoke in it, but we mainly grilling. You know, cut the fat down, take all the fat out. We eating healthy. You know? So, can’t go wrong with that.

	W:	How long have you been cooking like this?



	S:	Oh, ten years or so? Yeah, I’m forty-one. I been cooking at least ten years.





	W:	Okay. What does it take to do a setup like this with the smoker—I see it’s got wheels on it, you had to get it here. What time did you get started this morning to get this going so far?

	S:	7:30.



	W:	7:30 this morning? S:	Yeah. Yup, 7:30.

	W:	And what’s the process?



	S:	Well, the meat was already seasoned, all that; get the grill going, let the grill warm up or cook up down to about fifteen, twenty minutes, ‘til they turn white. All white. Then you ready to cook. It’ll cook all day. You put it on there, and every ten, fifteen minute, just turn it over. Keep it from sticking, you know?

	W:	When and where were you born, Mr. Sanders? S:	I was born in Perry, Florida. 1968.

	W:	What was your date of birth? S:	Ten-five-[19]68. October fifth.

	W:	And who are your mom and dad?



	S:	My mom is Sarah Anne Sanders, maiden name Anderson. And my dad is Terry Lee Sanders. Both went to Jerkins.

	W:	And so they both went to Jerkins— S:	Yes.

	W:	—both from right here in Taylor County? S:	Yes.

	W:	Let’s start with your mom for a second. Who was her mom and dad?





	S:	Her mom was Bennie B. Anderson. She was born and raised here in Perry. And her father was from Sarasota. Oral Rivers was her father. And then, my grandmother married another guy, Tommy Lee Anderson. So he ended up raising us, pretty much.

	W:	Now how about on your dad’s side? Who were his mom and dad?



	S:	Well, his mom was Hazel Battle. She’s from Ft. Meyers. His granddaddy—well, his daddy is Theonta Sanders, which was a Perry native. And his grandfather was Theonta Senior. Well, they called him Mr. “Emmy.” You know, they was Perry native, though.

	W:	Okay, so you say that your earliest education was right here at Jerkins. Could you tell me a little about that, please?

	S:	Just looking back at it now, remember running up and down these hallways. [Laughter] As a little kid. Like I said, we went here, my class went here at [19]73 the first part of the year, in the first grade. And then, when the schools started to integrate—[Interruption at 3:02] At [19]73 when they started integrating for our generation, we moved away. So I really didn’t have—well, I did go here, like I said, because my kinder—all of preschool, all of daycare, and pre-K, and my first half of my first grade year. Before they integrated.

	W:	Do you remember anything about your teachers when you were going to school here?

	S:	Yeah, Mr. Jenkins, he was our principal pretty much. But like I said, it’s so long ago, I can’t really remember him like that once I went to all the other schools. But Mr. Jenkins was a great guy. I mean, everybody loved him.





	W:	Do you remember anything about the friends you had here? Who was your best friend when you were here at school?

	S:	His name is Floyd Oliver. We became friends in kindergarten because when he was born—well he was all right ‘til he got hit by a car, and he was crippled. Both his legs, and he had to wear the big boots with the shackles on his legs like Forrest Gump. He had to wear them like that and everybody used to pick at him a lot. And I felt for him, and became his friend, tried to make him feel better about hisself. And like I said, since kindergarten to right now, he’s my brother. To right now today, still friends; still best friends.

	W:	Do you have brothers and sisters? S:	Yeah, I have two sisters.

	W:	And what are their names please?



	S:	Kimberly, maiden name is Kimberly Washington, but she’s Kimberly Price now. And my younger sister’s Doris Annette Powell, that was her maiden name, she’s Doris Simpson now. Married.

	W:	And do they have kids? Are you an uncle?



	S:	Yeah I am an uncle. Yeah. My oldest sister Kim, she got four.



	W:	You said that like your pockets hurt when you said “I’m an uncle.” [Laughter] Did you feel your wallet tighten up?

	S:	[Laughter] I’m just kidding, I’m just kidding! W:	I saw the look, I knew!





S:   My younger sister Doris, she has four. So, you know, then I like to say I actually got five myself. But all of them grown. I got one child in Ft. Meyers, which will be fourteen in January. All the rest of them grown.

W:   What are their names?



S:  My oldest daughter is Kenyatta Sanders, and then my son under her—which, the two sons now, Devari and Rick, wasn’t actually my biological. But when I got with they mother, one of them was thirteen months and the other was three months.

So, I’m pretty much the only father they know. So they are Devari Williams and Rick Williams. But they both now graduated from TCC, and going to Florida State now.

	W:	Okay.



S:  Rick just had a baby. Devari just had two. So. And then Kenyatta, my daughter, she got three, she just had another baby. So, everything is pretty happy.

	W:	So y’all are Seminoles.



S:  Oh yeah definitely! You see actually, this is how ironic it be: my two boys, they straight Florida fans. But like I said, they going to Florida State now. So, yeah. But yeah, I’m a diehard Florida State. I’m a diehard.

	W:	Okay, you know there’s a lot. I went to school over there, so I’ve always been a Gator first, but I’m proud of my Seminole ties. They were good to me, and it’s a good education and a good town. So I go to a lot of the games and stuff still myself.

	S:	Yeah, okay.



	W:	But I know people always ask, “But who you for?” [Laughter]





S&W: “Who you for?”



	S:	Because we have to play! W:	Every Thanksgiving.

	S:	Oh, yeah! Every Thanksgiving, we have to play.



	W:	So what do you think about having this celebration? This historic marker and everything?

	S:	I think it should be done more than once. I mean, I think it’s a long time coming. They should’ve been did this. I think they ought to do it every five years or so. I ain’t gonna say every year, because people live so far. But at least every five years, they ought to do that, because this is where we had to go when we were segregated. Now, we talking late [19]60s. Up North and all that had been did it. We still in the South, so, you know, we didn’t have that opportunity. But like I said, with everybody here now, and meeting old friends and—like I say, my mom passed and my dad is in Texas, so they couldn’t be here. I know my mom would have enjoyed this, though, you know? So like I say, I went here for half a year, but when they asked me would I volunteer to help cook, I didn’t hesitate. I said, “Yes, I will do that.” Because I did go here for half a year, but my mother went to school here, period. All the way through. Just for her, I didn’t hesitate; I was gonna do it anyway.

	W:	It seems that the event—I mean, there’s so much laughter, and people together having a good time—it is a big sense of community. Is that something that has been missing until people got together with Jerkins?





	S:	I think so, because it’s so—Perry is so Black and White still, that even the Blacks against Blacks. But I think this right here, nobody’s even looking at that now. You know what I’m saying? All they can think about is what happened when they went to this school. So it ain’t no—it’s like one big family. Like I say, they should do this more often. Maybe the community itself, for people that live here, are coming together. You know, I mean, I volunteered to do this. Didn’t know he was going be here. He talking about fried chicken, and we got a whole kitchen full of women cooking. As far as I knew, this would’ve been me and my aunt. So, look how it turned out. Everybody’s chipping in.

	W:	There was a hundred people here for just registration last night.



	S:	Exactly! So yeah, you can imagine how it’s going be today. All day long.



	W:	What are your hopes for a Jerkins Community Center? You know, reflecting on the high school, now that this has come together, what do you think can come from this?

	S:	I think—me, myself, this just on prayer, praying or whatever. If I could be blessed to be able to put enough money in this school to restore it, you know what I’m saying? Not far as a school itself, but for the young kids, you know, that’s five and under or whatever, before they get to the regular school, they’d have a chance to come here. Daycare, kindergarten, you know what I’m saying? That way, the heritage still goes on. Like I said, a hundred years from now, they can say, “Yeah I went there too.” You know, even if it was only for kindergarten or Head Start, they’d be able to come here, you know? I think some good will come out of it if it going to be another fifty years. Like I said, if they can keep doing this





every five years, I think it’ll get bigger and better, and I think we can all come together as a community for real.

	W:	The Taylor County Leadership Council had a lot to do with helping put this together, and I’m curious with all the leaders here, and people being involved, and talking about moving forward, what do you think of the qualities that make up the leaders that helped put this together?

	S:	Well like I said, I don’t know none of the leaders. I mean, not just—who you saying they are. I mean for them to make this happen, I think it speaks a lot for them, they character. Like I said, without them Perry’s already segregated, you know what I’m saying? With this coming along, like everybody came together, and then more people showed than I ever thought would show up. What they did to get everybody here was a blessing from God. So, Perry needed this, at least in our community.

	W:	What is your definition of leadership?



	S:	I would say, for one, to always keep God first. You know, and respect everyone.



Everyone due respect. To be a leader, initiate something positive. You know? Because when you do something sometimes, or most of the time, and you’re around good people, they’re going follow. They going do the same thing. As far as I know in my generation. I mean, being a good leader, I think you got to have God first, have love in your heart for your fellow man, Black or White, and initiate positive attitude and positive gestures, to make things go positive. Because positive and negative ain’t going get it. So long as you doing something positive, people’ll follow. That’s what I feel.





	W:	Let me ask you a little bit about your own personal history. You left here after early education, but where did you end up going to elementary school, and middle school and high school?

	S:	Well I went to, like I said, when I left here I went to the Wood School when the integrated. I left there and went to Perry Primary, which was first, second, third. Left that and went to the school across from a—it’s a old folks’ center now, third and fourth grade. Went to elementary fifth and sixth, then seventh and eighth.

And then you know to the regular schools that they got now. Then done upgraded the new high school, too.

	W:	Taylor County High?



	S:	Taylor County High, yeah. But where seventh and eighth grade used to be the high school. You know, they done built all these schools, a new third and fourth grade, a new fifth and sixth grade. I went to school here up until [19]79, and I left, which I was in the eighth grade, and I moved to North Carolina.

	W:	What part of Carolina?



	S:	Winston, North Carolina. We left from there, and moved back to Perry.



	W:	Taking a break to check on the chicken. It doesn’t make a sound like the fried chicken.

	S:	Healthy sound. [Laughter]



	W:	When you were in high school, what kind of activities where you involved in?



Where you in any clubs or organizations?



	S:	Well, I played sports; that’s about it. I mean, I was a great baseball player. I should’ve went pro.





	W:	What positions did you play?



	S:	I played every position but first base and catcher. My main position was outfield because I had a strong arm. Like I said, I can remember now when a guy hit a pop fly. He was trying to go home when I catch the ball, and I was in right field about ten yards from the fence. When I caught the ball, he took off. And I smoked it so perfect, the ball got there at least three seconds before he was able to touch the plate. That’s when they started calling me “Shotgun.” [Laughter] I think of that every day.

	W:	Who was your coach?



	S:	His name was Coach Ratliffe. He was a White guy. Anybody that ever went to school that was Black, pretty much up until maybe the generation that’s around thirty-five—no, generation around thirty, thirty-two—Coach Turner was the one that did it. You had to see Coach Turner in order to be anything. His famous words: “Get right, danky!” [Laughter] Go into the boogie squad.

	W:	What do you think he meant when he was saying to “get right”?



	S:	I think it was, like I said, leadership. I mean he wasn’t actually being mean with it, but everybody knew that that was his word. If he called you a “danky,” that mean you got to tighten up. I mean, it was a good thing, though. If anybody was anybody, Coach Turner had something to do with it. I guarantee it. Black, anyway. White, too, though.

	W:	So he has passed away now. Did a lot of people go to the funeral? Was it a big community thing?





	S:	Oh yes, definitely! Very big funeral. I don’t think I’ve seen one in Perry bigger yet. Yeah, that was a good guy. He was like a coach and a father, you know? To a lot of us. But back in them days, your parents had to work real hard. So school, you definitely had to go to school, because you was able to eat. And you’d have somebody to take care of you.

	W:	Well Mr. Sanders, this is hot out here, and I know you’re working, and I appreciate your time. And I know you were able to work and interview at the same time. I want to thank you for taking the time to speak with me. And just use this opportunity to close the interview by asking you to have any comment you want to have. You can reflect on the interview, you can talk about Jerkins High School, you can talk about anything personally, and when you finish those comments, that’ll conclude the interview.

	S:	Well you know, like I say, I’m glad that it happened. It gave me the chance to come back and really just remember the little time I did go here. It wasn’t as much as my mom and dad did, but I did go here. You know, just like I said, just looking down that hallway, I can remember many days walking down there. “Stop running!” That’s all you hear. “No running!” But it was good. And I hope they have it again in five years.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, September 9, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 1, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019