AAHP 634; Hollis; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 634 Sallie Hollis 2-18-2019 Interviewed by Anne Smith on February 18, 2019

23 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Gainesville, Florida; Women Veterans; Military History]



AAHP 634

Interviewee: Sallie Hollis Interviewer: Anne Smith

	Date of Interview: February 18, 2019 S:	All right. Okay.

	H:	What she say?



	S:	Are you ready? H:	What I got to do?

	S:	Are you ready for me? H:	Oh, yeah. I put up with it. S:	Okay. All right.

	U:	A little bit louder she’ll hear. H:	Huh?

	S:	Okay, all right. My name is Anne Smith— H:	Anne Smith.

	S:	And I’m a volunteer at the Oral History Program at the University of Florida. H:	Uh-huh.

	S:	And I’m here with Sallie Hollis. Sallie, tell me how you spell your first name. H:	S-A-L-L-I-E.

	S:	And Hollis is spelled, H-O-L-L-I-S? H:	Yes, ma’am.

	S:	Do I get an A+?



	H:	Well, an A is all right. S:	An A is all right. Okay.

	H:	[Laughter] You all got the right job. S:	Okay, do you have a middle name?





	H:	Sallie M-A-E, Sallie Mae.



	S:	Okay, all right. Now where were you born? H:	Perry, Florida, Taylor County.

	S:	All right, and tell me when. H:	January 25, 1923.

	S:	And today’s date is February 18, 2019. H:	Hmm?

	S:	I was just telling the camera when we’re taping for today. H:	Oh, yeah okay. Okay.

	S:	Now what I want to know is, how long were you in Perry before you came to Gainesville?

	H:	I heard that I was two-years old when they brought me from Perry and rode the train to Gainesville. Say I was two years old, but I can remember the train.

	S:	Tell me about it.



	H:	I remember when I got on the train, they had to flag the train back in those days. S:	Yeah.

	H:	When it’s way out back in the country like that. And they flagged the train down and they stopped, and the train I could hear it sliding. [Mimics a train sound] It take a lil time for the stone…hard…what you’d call that?

	S:	The rail.



H:  Yeah, and the axels and the train routers that’s regular hard—what you call that? Well, anyways, something was it can’t [Inaudible 2:12] break with the train. Can’t none ever and break it.





	S:	And then who were you with? Who brought you?



	H:	I believe my mother, lemme see. Perry, Florida… my mother, I forgot who else to say, but it was somebody coming with us.

	S:	Uh-huh.



	H:	For be sure we got here right, I guess.



	S:	Uh-huh. And why did you moved to Gainesville? Do you remember? H:	Well I think Alachua was a home, and Alachua out in the county— S:	Uh-huh.

	H:	And they said they was coming this for and they stopped in Gainesville before they got back to Alachua looking around.

	S:	Uh-huh, and so do you remember growing up then in Gainesville?



	H:	Yeah, I remember. I remember before they got a lot of the roads, it was sand roads and all. It wasn’t like it is now.

	S:	That’s right.



	H:	And they finally put the hard roads, and there’s a lotta trains and a lot of buses. A lot of people didn’t have the transportation, so they had buses and stuff like that.

	S:	Yeah, and when you were a little girl did you have brothers and sisters?



H:  Yeah, I was the oldest. A little sister Lilybell and then my brother Charlie Fagan Jr., and one we called—I forget her first name, but we called her Pumpkin. That was my baby sister.

S:   Mm-hmm.



H:   It was four of us.



	S:	What’s your maiden name, did you say Fagan, was that your—?





	H:	Isaiah Coulson was a maiden name. My real daddy was Isaiah Coulson and then when we got together, I went with another name I think.

	S:	Mm-hmm, and was that Fagan?



	H:	Well Charlie Fagan was who I got married to.



	S:	I see I see, all right. And then when you were little did you go to school when you were old enough?

	H:	Yeah, I went to Lincoln High. People had little homes here where they teach you a little somethin you know, but then when they opened Lincoln, I went there.

	S:	What do you remember about that?



H:  About Lincoln? I remember they had the like I said the little rooms, the first grade second grade, well they had primary. Primary for some of the people. And then they had first grade, second grade on up.

S:   Did you like school?



H:   Yes, I liked it, most of all the time. I liked it. Just going somewhere you know. S:   Yeah! How did you get to school, did you walk?

	H:	Well, I’ll tell you, sometimes somebody would carry us a good little ways I think. But most of the time you walk. Sometimes it wouldn’t be quite bright enough look like on your way out.

	S:	Yeah.



H:   Mm-hmm.



	S:	So it was dark when you left?



H:  Yeah kinda, might not been completely dark but it was…you couldn’t see like see how this sunshine out here?





	S:	And so when you went to school, you lived in the house with you mother and your dad. Was your dad there?

	H:	Yeah.



	S:	And what did your dad do for a living?



	H:	He worked on the railroad, Alachua County railroad. He was working on the railroad for the tires and the road and the heavy stuff they had to carry—

	S:	The rails.



	H:	Rails and all. I remember that very good.



	S:	Did your mother work outside the home or was she a homemaker?



	H:	Yeah she worked. She was in the home for some while, but different people wanted you to help do this. I remember a lot of people she would go over there and help ‘em. And they had rubboards.

	S:	Yes.



	H:	And had tubs and water, and then the balance stick. I remember that I had to used to push the clothes down in the department store.

	S:	Yes, yes.



	H:	I mean such a difference back there. S:	That’s right.

	H:	When I was young. S:	That’s right.

	H:	Yeah.



	S:	So you didn’t have electricity, I’ll bet.





	H:	No you had to have the kerosene lamps, had the laps, and some of them had what you call splinters. You light ‘em, and it had a little fire on the end ‘cording to where you was. You didn’t have all that other stuff people have now.

	S:	Yeah, that’s right. And you had an outhouse?



	H:	Oh yeah we had the doo-doo out! [Laughter] Honey, it was a difference back there. I tell ‘em, “I remember the outhouse, I remember the tubs, the boiling pot, and the balance stick.”

	S:	Uh-huh.



	H:	If you could see—just have a look of where I come along, you’d wonder how I made it this far. [Laughter]

	S:	Well, that’s what happens in one person’s lifetime is all those changes.



	H:	Yeah, the changes. It’s changed so much I tell you. I can remember a lot of the stuff. I remember the dirt roads and some of them just had the ruts.

	S:	Yes.



	H:	And the little bushes; the grass in the middle. And some of them they finally got the material of the big thing where they could scrape the road down to pack it.

	S:	Yes! Yes.



	H:	Honey, I tell you.



	S:	So do you remember when your family got their first car? H:	I believe it was May 1, 1944. I believe it was.

	S:	Do you remember what kind it was? H:	I think it was a Nash.

	S:	Uh-huh.





	H:	Nash I think it was. S:	Yeah?

H:   Mm-hmm.



	S:	When you got to high school, did you still like school and you liked all your studies?

	H:	Yeah, I liked high school. It was somewhere to go and enjoy your life. S:	Yeah.

	H:	May the first 1944. I don’t know if I graduated at that time, but I remember that number.

	S:	Yeah, that sticks in your mind as important. H:	Yeah.

	S:	Okay. Well now, did you graduate from high school? H:	Yeah May 1, 1944 I marched out.

S:   Okay, and then what did you do after you graduated?



	H:	You know it was so many different things you’ve done. The thing growed up with all kinda oranges and tangerines—it was a lotta stuff back there.

S:   Yeah.



H:  And naturally we’d go and pick the beans, and it was just so much going on. We got a chance to walk a long ways most the time. Wasn’t much riding back there. We got a ride sometime, but not all the time.

S:   Yeah.



H:   Yeah.



S:   Yeah, when did you join the service?





	H:	I think it was May 1, 1944, I believe it was.



	S:	What made you decide to go into the armed forces?



	H:	The armed forces? Well they say fifty dollars was like two-hundred back then.



What I said? Twenty dollars? Yes, at first it was twenty, then it finally went up to forty dollars when you graduated for something when you went up. Yeah, a month. That’s a month.

	S:	And so where were you inducted? Or where did you begin your service? H:	It was May the first, 1944. I believe it was uh…I can’t think of the…

	S:	Did you go to basic training?



	H:	Yeah, we had to have the training. But this was May the first, 1944. I can’t think of the camp right this minute.

	S:	Did you go out of town? Did you get on a train and go someplace for basic training?

H:  Well, we got some here in Atlanta. I’m tryna think. It was a place outta town I know one place. After you got to a point, they carried you to somewhere, but I can’t remember where it was at this minute.

S:   And what did you learn? Did they teach you to march?



H:  Yeah you had to learn to march, and a whole lotta stuff you had to learn to do. I tell ‘em the place where they had to serve the food. I can’t remember what it is, but then they was cooking and stuff.

S:   Mm-hmm.



	H:	And they taught you how to do different thing there. S:	In the kitchen?





	H:	Yeah, it was like when you first coming out. It was like you had a lot of things you had to peel and whatnot. It was a lot of stuff that wasn’t finished up like it is now.

	S:	Uh-huh.



	H:	Yeah, it was something coming back there, I tell you. And we had to walk such a long distance most the time.

	S:	Yeah.



	H:	To different things.



	S:	In your unit, when you joined the service, was it Army?



	H:	Yeah, it was the Army—May the first, 1944 I joined the United States Army. And it was a small part of it. I can’t remember the little part we was on to keep strutting until you get up to a point. I can’t remember all of it.

	S:	And were all of the women, women of color? Were all of them—



	H:	For a short time, it was women of color, but then when you went a little while they had to get them together ‘cause small amount they had to get them together a little bit.

	S:	Yeah. Was there any difficulty between the groups?



	H:	And I keep thinking, it was more good people all the way; the Japanese, Africans, Whites and Blacks. It was a mix of a group. Some of them didn’t treat ya exactly, but it’s all right ‘cause we were shootin [Inaudible 12:37] and then somebody who erected them for premoral kinda ways.

	S:	Yeah.



	H:	Yeah, I’ve been blessed down through the years, I tell you. I told you every once in a while I got a Ford, a Nash, and an automobile. I got so much stuff in my life. I





don’t care if you’re painted if the snow white or tar babies, they was really most of them nice people.

	S:	That’s right.



	H:	Yeah.



	S:	I think that’s right.



	H:	I was chastised for doing good to all races. I helped so many people, even the little babies fell in love with me. They was faded out but—[Laughter].

	S:	When you got to the service, did they train you for a particular job? H:	Well, you had to take the basic thing, so you learn all this.

	S:	Yeah.



	H:	And then you get a chance, like I said, to go to the basic job for certain—well, certain areas. I say, I can’t tell you all the things that I didn’t have to go through with and learned it fast.

	S:	Yeah.



	H:	I say, I got so much good stuff from all races, because I learn fast and got along with them.

	S:	Wow.



H:   I tell them, “I didn’t paint ‘em me to Whitewash them.” [Smith laughs] They used to say, “Don’t do that, them crackers on it. Them niggers so and so.” I don’t care. I told you I got a Ford, a Nash, and an automobile from different people. But I got somethin to brag about now ain’t I?

S:   Well now, where did you go when you were in the service?





	H:	Well, I know I went to Camp Blanding, Fort Knox, Camp Blanding, Fort Des Moines. I went to several places. They had signed you to go certain places. I can’t remember all of them ‘cause you was traveling back then.

	S:	Yeah. And what was your job when you got there?



	H:	Well, I had so many different jobs. I worked at the eating place, and then I went to the—

	S:	So did you help in the mess hall? Or in the kitchen?



	H:	Yeah, I helped in the kitchen and a lotta times I had to just about do it.



Somebody, something happened to them they couldn’t come or somethin, and when I caught myself, I had to learn how to do it from ground up.

	S:	Yeah.



	H:	Ain’t that a blessing though?



	S:	Yeah. Yeah it is. Well, now did you learn to have some friends? Did you have friends in your group that were—

	H:	Yeah. I told ya I was chastised for all races. I got along—if it was painted it’s all right if it wasn’t painted. I got a long with so many people. If you live right, the other folks will fall in love with you.

	S:	I think that’s right.



	H:	Yeah, I said I got a Ford, a Nash, and an automobile free. When they give out…I opened the door and they put the car up to the door, and the key done fell in.

Ain’t that something?



	S:	That’s something. Now was that when you were at the university? When did you get those?





	H:	Lemmie see at the university. Yeah when I first went to university I got a lot of attention. I can’t remember just exactly, but I got along with the people.

	S:	Now when you went to the Army, were you married or did you meet somebody later and get married?

	H:	Yeah, I got somebody later. I was a single woman when I joined the army. S:	Uh-huh.

	H:	And I joined it for courtesy. Fifty dollars was like two-hundred back then. S:	Oh, sure.

	H:	Yeah. They said, “You wanna get fifty dollars?” And I signed my name. S:	Oh, yes!

	H:	Yeah, I can’t tell you the things—the good things that had happened to me. I’m showing off, ain’t I?

	S:	No, no, not at all. You’re telling me your story.



	H:	Yeah, honey. I’m saying oh honey I tell you. I didn’t care if it was painted or if it wasn’t painted. I was chastised for all of it. “Don’t do that, them crackers on it, and them niggers on some niggers juke last night.” Everything. I got along with everybody.

	S:	Well, that’s right, and that has its own rewards. People like you for that. H:	That’s it. Reward is what it is.

	S:	Yes, yes.



	H:	I tell you.



	S:	Well now did you know what was going on in the world as far as the war? I mean did you keep up with—





	H:	With what honey?



	S:	With the war. With the war that was going on in Europe?



	H:	Oh yeah, for a while I didn’t really—just say keep up with it ‘cause I was on the other side, but when they kept coming closer I noticed about that. But I didn’t have to be scared or nothing. I had more people, I told them, some of them was painted some of them wasn’t painted. When you blessed, you just blessed. And they say come over here, and I go over there and sit out the way. Ain’t that a blessing though?

	S:	It is, it is.



	H:	I have been blessed even when I got my five children, I got go much blessings from other races and from the same races and all around.

	S:	That’s right.



	H:	I got so much stuff. Someone called them outside some other race, killed him outside on the steps or somewhere and measured him; made him clothes. They had a lot of boats for clothes back then.

	S:	Uh-huh.



	H:	My children was so dressed up, people couldn’t hardly believe how did I do it. S:	Yeah.

	H:	But when you blessed you just blessed.



	S:	Well do you remember hearing about Pearl Harbor being bombed?



	H:	Yeah. I don’t remember like some people, but I remember Pearl Harbor just talking about it.

	S:	Yeah.





	H:	But I didn’t get a chance to know the whole details.



	S:	No. And so you knew wartime was real, and you were doing your part. H:	Yes, ma’am. Yes, ma’am.

	S:	Did you keep in touch with any of your friends who were in the service?



	H:	I know I did. I’m just thinking about it, but I didn’t have to keep in touch. They kept in touch with me.

	S:	That sounds right. H:	Yeah. Huh?

	S:	That sounds right!



	H:	And people done so many special things for me. Ain’t nothing I can say but thank God. And I tell ya, they let me know. “Don’t come out.” They’ll knock on the door and tell me when something was going on.

	S:	Yeah, yeah.



	H:	Yeah.



	S:	Now did your family have a hard time during the Depression? H:	I just imagine they had to.

	S:	Yeah.



	H:	I don’t remember jam up, but they had to have a hard time. S:	Yeah, because everything was scarce.

	H:	Everything was different. And they went to the bean field and whenever something was happening that’s where they had to work; just to make something for us.

	S:	I see I see. And that was a substitute—





	H:	Yes, ma’am



	S:	For other things they couldn’t get. H:	Mm-hmm.

	S:	Well, now did you enjoy being in the service?



	H:	Most of the time. Most of the time was a blessing. S:	And nothing bad ever happened to you?

	H:	I can’t remember nothing that was really serious happen to me. And I had so many people who, “Don’t go over there,” who helped me stay away and stay out of. And some of them even let me come over there… If they wasn’t painted they still let me come over there and hide out.

	S:	Yeah, yeah.



	H:	I got along with people. I tell them it’s amazing. It’s all kind of good people. S:	Now did you go to Iowa and other states?

	H:	I went to…I’m tryna think. S:	You said Fort Des Moines. H:	Fort Knox, Kentucky.

	S:	Fort Knox, Kentucky. H:	And Cleveland.

	S:	Cleveland.



	H:	Yeah, and I went to…Fort Knox. I went somewhere and they shipped me over there. I can’t think of it at this minute.

	S:	And did you go by train usually? H:	I went plane and train.





	S:	Did you?



	H:	Plane. One of them was so far they had to have a plane to carry you over there.



	S:	Yeah, yeah. Do you remember having to go someplace up north when its cold weather and snow?

	H:	For Knox, Fort Des Moines, and Camp Cleveland. I went to so many different places, honey.

	S:	Yeah. They needed help in various places and so they would call on the— H:	Yeah, I tell you I didn’t know about flying the planes and stuff like that.

	S:	Yeah!



	H:	But every once and while if the [Inaudible 21:03] was, they came in the planes. S:	Yeah.

	H:	I tell you if I could make a short movie of where I had to come along, it’d be something.

	S:	Well I was gonna say that must have been some of the first plane trips you ever took.

	H:	Yeah, it was. But you know you kinda get used to it when everybody else satisfied. Don’t care if you little bit nervous, you still get satisfied when you…

	S:	Well—



	H:	And like I say it was so many people that cared for others. Some of them was painted, and some of them wasn’t painted.

	S:	Yeah, yeah.



	H:	I got a long with so many people, and I was chastised.



	S:	Well when you got out of the service what did you do then?





	H:	Well I went—



	S:	You came back to Gainesville?



	H:	For Knox…Let me see here. I went to some other little place; Camp Cleveland.



Different little places I went to, different little places. Short time, you know?



	S:	Yeah.



	H:	But I can’t remember all of them, but it was so many people that cared for others.



And every once and a while I think about, if anybody had made me hate anybody, don’t care what color it was I wouldn’t have. And I got a Ford, a Nash and an automobile from the other race.

	S:	Was religion very important in your life when you were growing up? H:	Religion?

	S:	Mm-hmm.



	H:	It wasn’t just something painted out for you. They taught you different little things, and how to get along.

	S:	Uh-huh. How to live. H:	Huh?

	S:	How to live.



	H:	Yeah! Like I said I got along with people, all kind of people. When I got my daughters, it was so many your race and other people that let them come over on the steps of the back porch and measured and made them clothes. Now that’s something to think about ain’t it?

	S:	That’s wonderful. That’s just wonderful.



	H:	I keep saying. Even today, it’s more good people than bad people.





	S:	I believe that.



	H:	Yeah. I said, “I haven’t been too bad in spots with nobody.” S:	When did you meet your husband?

	H:	May the first, 1944, I believe it was.



	S:	And how did you meet him? What were the circumstances?



	H:	Well, I believe the parents wanted somebody good. They called me good for him.



So they brought us to have picnics and different little stuff.



	S:	Yeah!



	H:	Yeah, so we got along. Thank God I got along with people. I don’t care what they look like or where they was from. And I helped so many—the little people like you; the little White children. And they fell in love with me.

	S:	Yeah.



	H:	Ain’t that something? I say, “It ain’t quitting time till He say so”



	S:	When you married your husband, what was his job? What did he do?



	H:	You know what it’s kinda hard. I think he worked at a place where he served food from. A restaurant I think that’s where he worked at.

	S:	Mm-hmm.



	H:	It’s been such a long time, but I think that’s—and knew how to come out when he got his break, when he done cleaned up, and got the stuff all set. He come outside and sit down and talk to me.

	S:	Yeah, yeah. And then you started your family.



	H:	Yeah, wasn’t too long. Ain’t nothing I can say but thank God.



	S:	Well now tell me about your children. How many children did you have?





	H:	Nancy, Diane, Nadine, Norma and Dollary we had five daughters. S:	Well, how wonderful!

	H:	We had five. And you know what I think about people like you all and all and some of them went to the back steps, didn’t go on the back porch, and they measured them, made them clothes. It’s more good people, don’t care what color they is, than there is bad people.

	S:	That’s right.



	H:	I got a Ford, a Nash and an automobile. When you get along with people that means something.

	S:	It does. I wanna ask you about all the changes you’ve seen in Gainesville.



You’ve been here a long time.



	H:	I been here a long time.



	S:	You remember what downtown looked like? H:	Yeah, I can remember.

	S:	When you first came here?



	H:	It wasn’t a whole lotta stores this town. S:	Yeah.

	H:	And actually the furniture store was number one and the markets for the food and the furniture store that was number one.

	S:	Yeah.



	H:	I can’t tell you all the things. I can’t think fast. S:	Where did you get your groceries?

	H:	Get what?





	S:	Where did you get your groceries when you went to shop for your girls? H:	Oh.

	S:	You had five girls.



	H:	Supermarket and uh…you know what and people like you and a few others, they would buy me stuff and sometimes I’d go and sit up against the door outside.

They done bought me stuff, ain’t that somethin?



	S:	That’s wonderful.



	H:	They’d buy me stuff and when I opened the door the stuff fall in. I never seen. I tell ya, I’m so thankful that most of the people is good people. The most of them.

	S:	When you were disgraced from the service— H:	May the first, 1944.

	S:	Did you get the G.I. bill? Could you have gone— H:	Did I do what?

	S:	Get the G.I. bill, could you have gone to school?



	H:	Yeah, you know I can’t hardly think of that, but it was something like that. S:	Yeah, ‘cause some people went back to school; went to college with it.

	H:	And I had so many people like you all would tell me come over here and help them. I go over there and help them, and sometimes they would give me something special. Like I tell, I said I got a Ford, a Nash, and an automobile.

	S:	Who gave you those?



	H:	Some of the people like you, the White people in this…I can’t even think of the name right now. But when you open the door and the keys fall into the car sitting out front, that’s something ain’t it?





	S:	What did you do for them?



	H:	I ain’t do nothing for them. They just told me and help me. And some of them I helped. But it was somethin. I can’t think it all jam up. But it was something.

	S:	Did you work? Did you have a job outside of the house? H:	Yep, different people I helped. Different people.

	S:	What did you do?



	H:	Whatever. I don’t care if it was rubboard, the ball part, the balance stick, or the lot of clothes line back there.

	S:	Yeah.



	H:	Hung up clothes. S:	Uh-huh.

	H:	And helped with the children, and some of the children fell in love with me. They couldn’t do nothing about it. Don’t care if they was painted or if they wasn’t painted. But I’m so thankful. The Lord blessed me to stay here up until the day—I ain’t got nothing against if you’re painted, the Lord fix me that way.

	S:	Well, I want to know what your secret is to a long successful happy life.



	H:	I can’t call it a secret, and if I did I’d be shouting and my titties would be shakin. [Laughter].

	S:	I wanna know what you advise young people when they come to you and they say, “How can I have a life that is happy as yours?”

	H:	Well, I don’t know it’s something I might not just say it completely, but I show them somethin. When you finally got books and stuff I can show ‘em somethin out of them sometime. If you could see the difference in people, I tell you some of





them was White as snow and some of them was Black as tar, but when you treat them right, when you know anything they help you.

	S:	That’s right, that’s right, that’s right.



	H:	Yeah, I’m so thankful. I’m just so thankful how He brought me, and I have helped more people. And I told you, I got Ford, a Nash and an automobile. When you ain’t able to buy a car and somebody park and car in front of ya door and the keys fall in when you open the door. I got three cars. Now you know that’s gotta be good people, ain’t it?

	S:	I think that’s a record. I don’t think I’ve ever heard of that. H:	They did.

	S:	I think that’s wonderful.



	H:	But they did. Like I said so many people, it was so many people that care for you.



I tell ya some of them was painted and some of them wasn’t painted.



	S:	Yeah.



	H:	I thank God for you all inviting me and enjoying the know.



	S:	Well I want to know, what else in your life you remember. When you sit alone in that house and you think what a good life you’ve had. What do you remember?

	H:	It’s so much of it, I can hardly think about. But like I say, I help with some things just couldn’t nobody else help. And if somebody didn’t know about this particular thing, and when I know anything I had helped them. Like I told you, I got so much stuff from people. Some was painted like you and some was painted like her. But I got so much help from people. I got a Ford, a Nash, and an automobile, and I got so much stuff. Honey, I wouldn’t fool ya. If I could make a short movie—





	S:	You’re making one right now. This is a movie. You’re making your movie. H:	You got the right job! [Laughter] I don’t wanna shout my titties slapping.

	S:	Yeah, we’re gonna have you up on the big screen any day now, any day now. H:	A big what?

	S:	Starring Sallie.



H:  Look here, I tell ya like I say, the Lord blessed me to get all kinda jobs. Some of them I didn’t have to do hardly; just sit there. They just wanted me to come, ain’t that something?

S:   Well you’re the perfect personal representative.



	H:	Well, I’m so thankful and just to think back I didn’t think—it’s something to think about now. Sometimes I just thought back. Like I said, I got Ford, a Nash and an automobile. If you get a free car that’s something ain’t it?

	S:	I think what I’m gonna do is thank you for your stories right now, and see if there’s something in the pictures that your daughter has that we can look at that might trigger some other memories for you. You wanna do that?

	H:	I’ll put up with it. [Laughter] S:	Okay, okay.

	H:	Y’all so sweet. You got a good job. Enjoy your life. S:	How many minutes do we have?

[End of Interview]



	Transcribed by:	Kasamba Kokayi, July 25, 2019 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, March 26, 2020 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, November 19, 2020