AAHP 071; Gunter; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 071 Jerricka Gunter African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on September 5, 2009 16 minutes | 10 pages



Abstract: This interview took place at Black Alumni Weekend in 2009. Jerricka Gunter talks about her experience in the University of Florida as an undergraduate and graduate student in Business. She talks about her family background and upbringing in Haines City, and her family’s educational background and how they influenced her decision in attending college at UF.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 071

Interviewee: Jerricka Gunter Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: September 5, 2009



	W:	This is Marna Weston at the Hilton, for Black Alumni Weekend and the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. I’m here with Jerricka Gunter. Thank you very much for agreeing to do this interview.

	G:	Thank you, Mr. Weston.



	W:	My great pleasure. Would you please spell and say your complete name?



	G:	My name is Jerricka L. Gunter. First name J-E-R-R-I-C-K-A, middle initial L, last name G-U-N-T-E-R.

	W:	And what does the L stand for? G:	Latrice.

	W:	And could you spell that? G:	And that’s L-A-T-R-I-C-E.

	W:	Now, your information sheet lists that you attended the University of Florida from 1989 to 1993. What brought you to the University of Florida and what was your degree in?

	G:	Well what brought me to the University of Florida was Mr. John Boatwright. While I was in high school in Haines City, they came to our school and gave us applications to fill out for the University of Florida. And he said that “Well, we waived the application fee,” and I said, “Well, great! I’ll go ahead and fill it out.” And I filled it out and that’s how I ended up here and got a scholarship.

	W:	Terrific. Talk a little about your family. What is your date of birth? G:	My date of birth is September 19th, 1971. So—

	W:	Coming up.





	G:	Coming up, right around the corner. My parents had come from a great, great—I mean, family first. My grandfather was the first Black police officer in Haines City, Florida. That was my mom’s dad. My dad’s dad, he was one of the biggest sow producers, or, he had the biggest pig farm in the local area in Polk County. And we actually have a street named after us: Gunter Avenue, it’s in Lake Hamilton, Florida. So I’m from a family of firsts, and my mom and my dad, they both have college education, and they wanted to encourage us to do the same: to pursue a college education.

	W:	Now, what are their names, your mom and dad, and what schools did they go to?



	G:	My mom and my dad—my mom’s name is Dorothy Newman Gunter, and she went to Polk Community College. And my dad is Jerry Thomas Gunter, and he went to Ridge Vocational Tech.

	W:	Do you have other brothers and sisters?



	G:	Yes I have two younger brothers. My younger brother is Faron Yohanse Gunter, and he attended another university, which is the University of Central Florida.

And my other brother is Deandre Rashad Gunter, and he’s currently attending Valencia Community College.

	W:	Okay, super. Your mom and dad’s parents, what are their names, your grandparents?

	G:	My grandparents is Frasier Newman, and my grandmother Hattie Bell Newman.



And on my dad’s side it was Herman Woodrow Gunter, and Ethel Gunter.



	W:	Now, when we started—or, before we started this interview, you were telling me about your strong ties to Florida, and your great pride in being a Floridian, and





being a country girl. What is it about Florida that is so enamoring to you, that you’re so proud of your Florida roots?

	G:	Because I am. I’m deeply rooted in Florida. Both of my grandparents were farmers. My grandfather had cattle, and my other grandfather had hogs. So, I grew up on a ranch, and grew up with the hay and the horses, and you know, the garden, and picking the peas. So I really feel that I’m part of the soil of Florida.

So, being here all my life, it’s just been very, very, I guess, difficult to go anywhere else, and to see just how important the cultural and the—what’s the word I’m looking for? The ties that bind. It’s the ties that bind, and they’re so strong. So that’s why I just love being a Florida native and talking about it.

	W:	What are some of your earliest memories of education? Where did you go to elementary school?

	G:	I went to Bethune Elementary School, named after Mary McLeod Bethune, from Bethune Cookman, and—

	W:	What school—what city?



	G:	And that’s in Haines City, Florida.



	W:	In Haines City? So, straight-up Haines City.



	G:	Straight Haines City. And because I went to a lot of school in Haines City, due to the desegregation and the bussing, I went to a number of schools: one for first grade, one for second grade, one for third grade. So, I went to a number of different schools, but the majority of my elementary school was at Bethune Elementary: fourth and fifth, kindergarten, and then I went somewhere else for first, second, and then high school at Haines City High.





	W:	You mentioned that your parents’ drive made you know you were going to go to college, because they had college as well. Was there a particular teacher in your early years in elementary, or middle school, or high school, that really inspired you to go on to college as well?

	G:	Oh, wow. I had a number of teachers that inspired me. Like I say, going to a predominantly Black elementary school—one that I can remember, I had a Black principal, Mrs. Powell. Mrs. Gusby, she as my fifth grade teacher; she really stressed education. She was a graduate of Bethune Cookman. And Mrs. Barbara Jackson, she was one of the first business teachers to come and teach in Haines City, at the first Black school there in Haines City. So, she was the one that really encouraged me and inspired me. She was our business teacher, she taught typing, she taught a lot of business courses. And that’s why I pursued business once I got into college.

	W:	How about middle school? Where’d you go to middle school?



	G:	Middle school, I went to—I’m trying to, they changed the name; it’s this Boone Middle, but it’s Jenkins. It’s Jenkins Middle School. They since changed the name; it was just Haines City Middle School at that time.

	W:	And how about high school?



	G:	High school, Haines City Senior High. W:	So just straight up Haines City girl.

	G:	Haines City girl! All the way!



	W:	Okay, so you leave Haines City, and you come directly to the University of Florida?





	G:	I come directly to the University of Florida. I came in as a freshman, I went to preview that summer. Got acclimated with the university; my parents came and we had the experience of staying in the dorms. And actually going through the program, that helped me quite a bit. Because coming from a small town, I didn’t even know honestly where Gainesville was. I knew about other universities that were targeted to Blacks, HBCUs. But when Mr. Boatwright came to school and he said, “Hey, think about some other schools. How about filling out University of Florida?” And I was like, “Where’s that?” And he’s like, “Gainesville.” And I thought Gainesville was a world away. A world away. So, that’s how I ended up here, and my campus experience.

	W:	So what were your impressions of the University of Florida once you arrived?



G:   Once I arrived, I was in awe. I was in awe, I was amazed, and like I say, being a bit overwhelmed coming from a small town. But I saw it as a challenge. And then being one of the first from my immediate family to go to college, and you know, to go to a diverse university. Everyone was looking at me to accomplish that goal.

	W:	Mmhm. Well now, you were involved in a good number of social organizations and academic organizations while you were here at the University of Florida. Could you talk about some of your co-curricular and extra-curricular activities?

	G:	Well, when I first got here, they had—I was a Presidential Minority Scholarship winner, I had a four year academic scholarship here, and also part of that program—they had the minority mentor program that matched us with professors that were going to be in our degree program. So, when we first got on campus that very first semester, they paired me up with Dr. Christopher Janiszewski, and





he’s in the marketing department, because my undergraduate degree is in marketing research. And I got involved in the Minority Mentor program, and we had meetings, and they basically supported us on campus, and helped us to know a little bit more about some of the other areas like the student union and stuff like that. And then, after my sophomore year—because I was just a book person, I didn’t go to any games; I hate to say that, but I studied the whole entire time I was here. I went to school year-round. And he was on the chair of the Minority Business Society. And he encouraged me to get involved in that as well. He said, “That would be a really good program for you to get involved in.” So, I got involved with that in my junior year, and stayed with it throughout.

	W:	Well, now you’re decked out in Gator today, so I’m assuming that you’re going to the game. You look Gator head to toe.

	G:	Yes, this is my first game ever. I didn’t attend any basketball games, I didn’t attend any football games. And people say, how could you go to school there and never attend? But it’s like, always, it was crowded; so, not saying I didn’t take to the crowds. Like I say, coming from a small town, it was a bit overwhelming.

	W:	Well you’re going to really enjoy it. There are ninety-plus thousand people saying, “Heeeere come the Gators!”

	G:	Wow, maybe I need some ear plugs! [Laughter]



	W:	Oh, you will! It’s going to be really loud. When did you first know you were a Gator?





	G:	I knew I was a Gator when I first went to preview. When I stepped on campus, and—you know, I thank God for Mr. Boatwright for encouraging to step outside that box and actually live my dream. And once I got on campus, and I stayed over there in Trusler Hall, I was like, “Okay, yeah. My blood is running orange and blue.” [Laughter]

	W:	Trusler, is that that Weaver, south? G:	Graham area? Mmhm.

	W:	Okay. What was some of your best memories from living in a dorm? Coming from Haines City, and now you’re in a room with someone you’ve never met before, and here at the University of Florida. What was one of the good memories—and if you want to tell a weird one, you can too.

	G:	One of the good memories is that I actually got a chance to meet girls from all over the country. And once we came on that one floor, and we had that RA meeting with the resident assistant, and just seeing this person was from West Palm Beach, this person was from Atlanta, this person from—I would have never experienced that had I stayed in Haines City, or maybe even gone to an HBCU. So, I was really fortunate for that experience. And my roommate, Cara Kidd—I’ll never forget her name—from West Palm Beach, it was just like I said. I went from being in a predominantly Black school until I got into high school, and then my roommate was Caucasian. And we—and she was in the band. So, I got an experience all the way around with her; you know, doing the cheers, and coming in in her band uniform. So, it was definitely a great experience—cooking for myself. [Laughter]





	W:	Would you send your kids here to the University of Florida?



	G:	Oh, definitely. Even when I go out and I talk to people, I always encourage them—I mean, if you can’t get into UF, go to college somewhere and have that college experience. Because it definitely shapes you. And I remember what my professor told me. I always asked him, “Well, why am I taking all this extra classes? I just want to take—you know, I majored in marketing, can I take just these marketing classes and be done?” He’s like, “Well, you know, UF helps you to become a well-rounded person, so when you’re talking to dignitaries and heads of states, you can hold those conversations on just about any subject.” And that has stuck with me all my life. So I’ve been an avid learner since.

	W:	So you feel the University of Florida prepared you for the world, and made you a good ambassador for the University of Florida as well?

	G:	Oh yes, definitely. I feel U of F has, like I said, molded me into the person that I am today, and has really instilled that, reaching that higher level, setting those goals, and always keeping education to the forefront.

	W:	What would your advice be for any student in general if you’d like, or for an African American student, coming to the University of Florida coming as freshman for the first time this fall? What would you suggest to them about how to handle their University of Florida experience?

	G:	Well, for a freshman coming in in the fall, and particularly and African American, I would just encourage them to stay focused on the goal. They’re here for a reason: they’re here to get their education, and it’s great to have fun, and it’s great to party, but just remember the goal at hand. That you’re going to get an





education, and you going to be able to encourage and inspire other kids coming in after you to get that same education, and to be able to accomplish their goals as well.

	W:	When you were here as an undergrad, or when you left, did you ever think there’d be a weekend like this, a Black Alumni Weekend? The first game every year now is dedicated to Black alumni. Is that something you could have envisioned when you were here?

	G:	I would have never envisioned that. I would have never envisioned that. When I first—like I said, when I first came here, it was a small group of us that were cohesive, and trying to manage the university, and trying to get through, and encourage each other to get through the program and graduate. And to know now that we have so many students that have come through these doors, that have achieved their goals, and that there is a dedicated association that is still keeping that tradition alive, and actually set aside a weekend for us to come back and renew ourselves, and express ourselves, and reacclimate ourselves to the university.

	W:	You going give them any money? [Laughter]



	G:	Well, I have given money in the past because of a recession. I’m a realtor, a laid off AT&T employee, so I got all of the things at one time. But I’ve always supported. Even if I can’t support monetarily, I always give them my time, and I always say “Time is money.”

	W:	Well, I’m just playing. I’m with the Oral History Program, I’m not with the Alumni Association! [Laughter] But that was a good answer.





	G:	Good answer, good answer.



	W:	Jerricka Gunter, I want to thank you so much for this opportunity to reflect back on your career here in the University of Florida, preparing you for life in so many ways, and sharing that story. Thank you on behalf of the Oral History Program. And also, to conclude our interview, by allowing you to add any comment that you would like to. So at the end of your comments, that will complete the interview. And thank you again.

	G:	Well, thank you. And I just wanted to comment that coming to the University of Florida would, for anyone that decides to apply here and get accepted, that would be the most rewarding and enriching experience. And especially as an African American, being here in Florida, it really speaks volume to where you’re headed and what you’re trying to accomplish, and other students look up to you, other people look up to you. And when you put on that orange and blue and you walk into a store, you can have a conversation with anyone on any level. And that’s the thing that the University of Florida has prepared me for, and will continue to prepare those that are coming in afterwards. And I’m just thankful that I had the experience.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Anna Jimenez, April 22, 2013. Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 9, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019