AAHP 457B; Boatright; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 457B John Boatwright and Alice Boatwright Interviewed by Juliette Barbera and Nicole Yapp On July 31, 2018

27 Pages



Abstract:



Keywords: [African American History; Ocala, Florida; United States Air Force; Segregation; Silver Springs, Florida; University of Florida]



Interviewer: Juliette Barbera, Nicole Yapp Interviewee: John Boatright, Alice Boatright Date: 07-31-2018

AAHP 457B



	Ba:	Today is July 31st, 2018, and we’re here in the home of John Boatright. My name is Juliette Barbera, and we’re here with—

	Y:	Nicole Yapp.



	Ba:	And Mr. Boatright’s gonna tell us about his book.



	Bo:	Yes. I decided years ago—because of this kind of information that I needed to give for people—to write a book and I was happy about my life. I’m a Christian person, and I felt that God had been with me, so from the very beginning of it, I did it in phases, like when I wrote the book. It’s like phases. I started out as a very young person—junior deacon—and winter was coming up in church and going up, and coming up and getting married. We’ve been married for over seventy-two years.

	Ba:	Wow.



	Bo:	So, I had that information. And I gave you this, because what you’ll find in the book is gonna be in phases and developin’ into chapters. And what I did is— you’ll find here—that the page number, that if you were checkin’ to double-check me on something—a date or time, or something like that—you could go to this information. “Well, when did he start at the University of Florida?” You’ll find here, employment at number ten—chapter ten—Employment at the University of Florida: 1968. Then, I went to Nebraska—I left the University and went to Nebraska because I was told by Mr. Ian that if you get your degree, then I’ll give you a job here with me in personnel. So, then it shows again—twelve, chapter—





Employment at the University of Florida 1970. I made out a copy for you—that’s your copy—so that if you were interested in a particular section—that you wanted to double-check on the information—that it would be there. On page three, I went through the book and looking back at it, we talked about the children. We had five children in our lifetime—my wife and I. My wife and I, we were married in high school. I was about sixteen years old, and so I went on and the Holy Spirit was with us, and I decided that one way to develop a good life is to get an education—along with taking care of my wife and child—was to go into the military. So, I decided—

	AB:	Would you like something to drink? Y:	No, thank you.

	Ba:	Thank you so much. AB:	I can’t hear.

	Ba:	We’re fine.



	Y:	We’re fine. No thank you.



	Bo:	That’s my wife Alice. I decided to join the Air Force, but before I went in the Air Force I prayed on it and all that would be for me, and I went into the Air Force. And at the time, I wanted to know who was gonna be there, because at that time, you needed to have a certain education and take a test and all, or you went directly to the Army. So, I did take the test, and they said, “Well, you got a chance to go in the Air Force, if you want.” So, I thought that was a big deal, and





I went on into the Air Force. One thing about it, though, is after my first Air Force position—I’m not Air Force, as you can say—when I went to a training—basic training—out in Texas, they sent me to Alabama for additional training. I’ll never forget—when I went to Alabama, they [inaudible 4:58] went on the main base, and all the White military people were up on the main base. They had the housing and all, and for the minorities—at that time, the African Americans—they had a little base that was about five miles down from the main base, and they sent me down there. And so, that’s where I went for my housing. I’ll never forget. That was on the weekend. That Monday morning, the officer came down to interview us. I’ll never forget—he said, “You have an opportunity of three jobs.

You can either be a truck driver, a cook’s helper, or a janitor.” That’s what he told us. It was about thirty of us, I think. About twenty-five of us or something like that. He says, “That’s your job. You can select whatever.” People laughin’, and I said, “Well, I want to eat while I’m here. So, I’ll take that cook’s helper job.” So, I went on as a cook’s helper, but that was my starting point, but the Lord really blessed me. I ended up spending twenty years in the Air Force, and it’s all in the book and everything, and ended up at the University of Florida. But, I also too— think about my wife, because of the jobs that I had while we been—were—married. [Laughter] [Inaudible 6:57]. We married. With the University of Florida, I started out there—in the book—in housekeeping! That was my job housekeeping. I was a clerk, and I always called myself a janitor, big-time janitor [laughter]. But, I was a clerk and housekeeping. But the main thing about the Air Force was every base that I went to, they were givin’ college-level tests. I would take a college-





level class. So, I did that throughout the time I was in the Air Force. I would take those college-level classes. Anyway, there was a Mr. Eagan—his name is very clear, [inaudible 8:05] to me years ago. Mr. Eagan says, “John, I’ll tell you what. If you get your degree, I’ll give you a job in personnel.” I says, “Wow, let tell it.” So, I remember that while I was in the Air Force, they had a program that was called, “Operation Bootstrap.” And if a person completed at least three years or more of college, and he could get his degree in a year, they would send that person to Operation Bootstrap. I never did take that while I was in the Air Force. So, I asked him—I checked with the military people—I said, “Can I go on that Operation Bootstrap program now?” And they says, “Yeah. You can go, if you want to.” So, I left the University and went to Nebraska on my Operation Bootstrap, and that semester I got a degree from Nebraska. I came back and Mr. Eagan hired me in personnel. But, I say that, but the main thing that I was talking about, too, was that my wife was determined that at that time—we had about two children, three children. We had Alicia, that’s her mobile home over there.

Alicia, and we had Therer, and we had Candy. And Candy’s the only one that we—she’s deceased. She’s with our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Then we went on and had Laman and Billy. Then, we had Jamella. Jamella was one of the strongest ones. NASA hired her, and boy I really thought was—they hired her—and I says, “That’s [inaudible 10:20] and she’s a woman, and she has about twenty-something people that’s under her supervision right now.” In fact, she’s going to retire in about three or four months. Therer went on and retired, she’s a supervisor in high school. She went on a retired about three, four years





ago. Alicia retired about a month ago from Dunnellon High School. She was a counselor. Billy retired from the state, he’s a mama’s boy; he was here earlier. He retired. So, the way I see it—giving back, too—the point of my wife was that my wife raised the children, because—my job—I was always gone. Twenty years in the Air Force [inaudible 11:24] and if you took the book, you will see the places I went. I went to Vietnam and the fact I was awarded a Bronze Star in Vietnam. Cameroon, I went to Pakistan—and just all over—and we had two children born in Germany. My wife was always the homemaker. She never worked an outside job, never did. She was the homemaker, and that was her job—to raise the kids. Even at the University of Florida, if you go back and look at my record, I was first Minority Admissions Office—Director of Minority Admissions Office—hired at the University of Florida. My job was traveling primarily, too, because in a year I started traveling. I would go to high schools, because that was a big part of my job. So, those children had somebody, and my wife did the raisin’ them. She did a beautiful job, and as I said, they [inaudible 12:45]. You have any questions or anything—while I’m talkin’—that you would like to ask me?

	Ba:	Okay, I did, but I don’t know if you wanted to keep going. I do have a question based on what you just said.

	Bo:	Just stop me.



	Ba:	You mentioned working in Minority Affairs—part of your job was recruiting high school students. So, I was wondering—I’m not sure if the University does that





anymore, I’m not sure—but I was wondering while you were at that job, was it something that continued, or did it stop eventually?

	Bo:	At the University of Florida?



	Ba:	Yeah. Did they keep doing that? Where they would go—because you know how you mentioned in your position a part of your job was to go and recruit?

	Bo:	No, that was always a part of my job, even up until the last. Ba:	Okay.

	Bo:	Part of that Director of Minority Admissions was setting programs—when you look at the book, you’ll see some of the high school scholars programs that I started—I started various programs like that, and that was where I was came in. And that’ll show you exactly what I had to do in Admissions Office. The recruitment thing was a minor part of it, really, when you look at the administrative part of being a director in Minority Admissions. I did have some other people working for me, but you just asked that question, so we’ll look at this form that I gave you. You look down, and you can see amazing things like that in the page in the book that you can go directly to that, and that’ll emphasize talking about that.

	Ba:	Okay.



	Y:	These programs that you established—were they for minority students, or for all students?

	Bo:	Well, I established them for minority students, but all students could participate.





	Y:	Okay.



	Bo:	But they were specifically for minority students, because at the time, the majority of the students was White and none minorities. See, when I went to the University of Florida years ago, minorities before my time were not promoted to even attend the University of Florida. Then, when they started admitting minority students from the time when I went in, and I started with the admissions of minority students. But those programs—you’re right—they were specifically designed for minority students, because those were the students that had been denied admissions and you can see the position that I ran in when I went into the Air Force. That kinda thing where the Air Force sent me away from everybody else—and that was the Air Force! So, it just goes to show that even so at that particular time, minorities needed specific programs to really get them started.

	Y:	And did these programs continue to exist while you worked at the University of Florida?

	Bo:	Yeah. They were. In fact, one program that the University developed was—I don’t think it’s still there now.

	Y:	None of your old programs are still there now, do you know? Bo:	Yeah. That’s what I was going to show you.

	Y:	Okay.



	Bo:	[mumbles] Oh…where is it? [Pause]





	Bo:	This one right here. [Pause]

	Y:	The Brain Bowl Scholarship. That’s interesting. Did they make the scholarship in your honor?

	Bo:	Yeah. They made it in my name, right.



	Y:	Oh! That’s really great. Yeah, I’m not sure if this is still a scholarship. Bo:	They even had the time of that, you see, that particular scholarship.

	Y:	It looks like from this paper that at the time, the Presidential Scholarship was still there—well, if it’s the same scholarship.

	Bo:	That might not be a thing. Y:	It might not be—

	Bo:	But, as I say, one thing that you can find in this book—it’ll have information on scholarship programs, programs that I started and stuff, and you can go right to it and get that information when they were started and stuff like that.

	Y:	Do you believe that your programs increased the number of minority students that were at UF?

	Bo:	By all means. By all means, because those like the Honor Scholars—I did one program in my name and it be in the book. You got to look at the book. It’s all the scholarship awards, the Presidential Scholarship awards. You talkin’ about thousands of dollars that a person get by attending. That’s one of the main





things, too. What draws many, many students is the scholarships and help that they can get. And that’s what my program was all about. Now, the scholarship or like I said the Honor Scholarship Award, the Presidential Scholarship Award— those are two big scholarships—but the other programs on the side, the federal programs that was designed to—that many students never know about until you tie these in together with them. Say, [inaudible 18:53] you [inaudible 18:53] big packages.

	Y:	The Admissions Office just allowed you to make these programs? Do you remember what the discussion was around the creation of these programs?

	Bo:	You’re right. The discussion was—at the Admissions Office everybody knew what my job was—was to increase the minority student enrollment at the University of Florida. Any time I did a scholarship, they knew exactly what that was for, because the next thing they talk about was the money kind of thing. Where are we gonna get the money from? Because a lot of times people will say, “You want to get some of this money to other students, too.” This very seldom came up, because it was obvious that the Black student was the student that had not been there encouraged to attend, but de-couraged not to come here. My job was to encourage that. And how do you encourage that? One way is that you produce programs that can help that student come in there, rather than not. See, the main schools one day in Florida at the time was Florida A&M, where that was the Black school. So, you see, you gotta get in there and see what you gonna do, and do this better than at Florida A&M, or you can get the same thing. Another thing, too, is when I get there, what about the counselors? The teachers? The





people that’s gonna work over me? How are they? All this is part of that recruitment of minority students that I came up [inaudible 20:51]. As I said, one thing that I hope that you do is really read the book—

	Ba:	We will.



Bo:  —in that area. That’s one reason I gave you that diagram. Ba:  Thank you so much for putting that together.

Bo:  So you don’t have to look all over to try to find something. And when you got the page number and all, you just ask that question. You’re looking through the book and, “Oh, yeah. Yeah.” And you just go to page fifty-nine, or sixty-nine, and then that kind of thing.

	Ba:		One question that I have. Since you’ve retired, have you kept up with Minority Affairs? Because currently, it doesn’t exist. So, I don’t know if you’ve kept up with it.

	Bo:	No, no. When I retired, the contact got lost. The contact with the school and Admissions kind of decreased. Declined period. Be honest with you.

	Y:	What year did you retire? Bo:	Beg your pardon?

	Y:	What year did you retire? Ba:	1994, I believe?

	Bo:	Beg your pardon?





	Ba:	You retired 1994, I believe. Bo:	Nineteen what?

	Ba:	[19]94.



	Bo:	Yeah, it’s in the book. Y:	[Laughter]

	Bo:	You go back to that, you’re gonna see “Retirement.” You go to that page. That’s why I wanted to give you that book. While I’m talking, I’m trying to think. There were times that students themselves have come to me. That kind of a thing.

Now, that’s the encouraging thing is when you meet a man that’s grown, because you don’t know, but you got me into the University of Florida! I just did a lot of that. “You were the one.” “You were responsible.” “You were the one that I went to,” and that kind of a thing. Like I said, the whole thing in my life is that I started with trying to be close to God as possible. And everything that I’ve ever done, I’ve prayed on it. And I just ask that the Lord would strengthen me with his Holy Spirit. And to work in a way that it is acceptable to him. And so, that’s always been my prayer in life—throughout my whole life—is to be as close to the Lord as possible. I just feel that that has been the main thing that’s helped me in my life, my marriage. Starting at the University of Florida, seventy-some years of a marriage and all that. And some people say, “Oh, I was lucky.” It was the Holy Spirit. The Lord God that the children that have come, the Lord helped me, bless them. So, that’s the thing that I feel. Even after I retire, helpin’ to ease your [inaudible 24:18]. “Did you stop?” No, no, no, no, no. I say it here. The one thing





that I think about in my life, too, is working to serve. And the thing that I look about me is that it had been many things that people base a lot on money. Money, money. You look at the kind of world—watch the T.V. set. Money. We just watchin’ some of the programs. I don’t know if you , now now people ready to go to court and all. Money. Money is so important to people, well maybe some people. But, I have not made money a number one thing in my life. Serving God has been the [inaudible 25:03] And they say really well. Or, how do you do? There’s something here I’m gonna show you. My wife sometimes says, “You give all these little companies and everything.” [Pause] These are some of the companies, last year. The organizations that I donated to. Last year. This is someone right there that I donated to. Over here. I went on to give so much to the University of Florida, still. I’m Catholic. I’m a member of Queen of Peace in Ocala. I’m a lecturer in the church. I read the scripture every 11:30 mass on Sunday mornings. That has been one of the best things that ever happened to me. I read my scripture over that word, the Word of God,that has really stunted me. And I just think of it. Sometimes you can let so many other things get in the way. But by being—and I’ve been with Queen of Peace Service since I retired.

Before Queen of Peace, I was at St. Augustine at Gainesville. I started out there in the Catholic. I started out, really, as Protestant, here in the Liberty Chapel, where my wife is now. We started at Liberty, I was a deacon at Liberty Chapel. A Sunday school superintendent What happened to me is that we got into an argument—so, I got into an argument with some of the other deacons. They wanted me to [inaudible 27:22] this disgrace to preachin’, and all that. I wouldn’t





go along with that. I wouldn’t go along with that. And I left, and I went to St. Augustine. I figured the Holy Spirit took me there, and I’ve been there ever since. My wife and I still go—and it’s not far from here—they still know me, and some of those people are still members. They say, “Gosh. I remember you.” And they come and hug me and [inaudible 27:53]. I got a bus when I was there to pick children up and bring them to Sunday school. So many things that I did while I was in the church there. But look, the whole thing it’s been is trying to live better. That’s what I’m doing now—is do whatever I can to serve the Lord and show love to others, to love other people in any way that I can. Like this place here. I just thank my wife all the time. Her father—Mr. McGrafford—had a lot of acres out here. And he gave—two of his children—they gave us, and we got five acres here. And this house and all is paid for. I don’t have any mortgage or nothing.

And then my will—I got a will. It says, “This house is left for the children on down. Grand, grand. To Ella Boring in Wyoming. And I got— Therer, my oldest daughter is over that will. And this is just for the children. I say, “You’re close to the University of Florida. If someone may attend the University of Florida, you can even drive or commute from here, if they don’t have the money and stuff like that. So, that’s what my life is all about.

	Ba:	Do you mind if we pause?



Bo:  Like I said yesterday—what was it, yesterday? Yeah—I did fifty minutes on the treadmill after running three. And I [inaudible 29:35] over there. And that’s the Holy Spirit that kept me doing that. Fifty minutes. And I do like sixty, and I try to





work out three days a week. Three days a week. I go to church sometimes and see people in wheelchairs and all, and I says, “[Inaudible 29:57] I’m blessed.”

	Ba:	Do you mind if we pause this? I’d like to use the bathroom, if that’s okay. Would I be able to?

	Bo:	Oh, yeah. Yeah. Mhm. Ba:	Do you need to?

	Y:	No, I’m fine.



	Ba:	Okay.



	AB:	[Inaudible 30:12]



	Bo:	Is he crying? See, he’s not crying now.



	AB:	[Inaudible 30:19-30:25] Three girls and one son. And each one had two children. And I have…one, two, three, four… I’m at eight great-grands.

	Ba:	It’s a big family.



	Bo:	Mama is now, what, ninety-one years old? AB:	Mm.

	Bo:	Ninety-one? Ninety-one years old? AB:	Yeah. I’m ninety-one, last week— Bo:	Her hearing is gone. Ninety-one.

	Ba:	Aw.





	Bo:	Goodness.



	AB:	You sure you don’t want anything to drink? Ba:	No, we’re good.

	Y:	We’re sure. Thank you.



	Ba:	Thank you so much. So I did have some follow-up questions. You mentioned—in your job through Minority Affairs—sometimes students come to you and say “thank you” for the work you did. Do you ever recall students coming to you and telling you about their experiences at the University at that time?

	Bo:	At the what?



	Ba:	Their experiences, like student experiences. Do you remember students letting you know what some of the experience they’re having as students at the University of Florida?

	Bo:	Not very often. I can’t recall. Ba:	Okay.

	Bo:	No.



	Ba:	Okay. Another question I had was Minority Affairs. Was that established before you came in? Or do you know the history of how it started?

	Bo:	No, that was established after I got there. Yeah.



	Ba:	Okay. So, do you recall any of that history of how it became part of the University? How did that idea come up? Just anything.





	Bo:	No, I sure don’t. Ba:	Okay.

	Bo:	But it did happen after I started—because as I wrote—back when I was there, you didn’t have too much of a—my office was in Minority Affairs, and it didn’t have a main office like now, minority affairs or anything like that. But that’s what my office was all about. In other words, if you had anything related to—at that time it was Black students, this would come through me. Through my office. I did the information that I had in the book here.

	Ba:	Sounds good. Another question I had was, do you remember any of your colleagues that you worked with? I have some names, I’m not sure if maybe that would help trigger some memories. I’ve heard the name Roy Mitchell.

	Bo:	Beg your pardon. Ba:	Roy Mitchell.

	Bo:	Yeah. That comes to mind. Yeah. Ba:	Do you want to tell us about him?

	Bo:	I don’t remember anything. Boy, I tell ya, that memory thing is gone. That’s why I say that this book.

	Ba:	If I mentioned some things, do you think that will be helpful? Bo:	Beg your pardon?





	Ba:	If I mention some things that I know about him. Do you think that might be helpful?

	Bo:	Okay, yeah. Mhm. Yeah. Mhm.



	Ba:	So I know Roy Mitchell had worked with Minority Affairs as well, and I think in 1971, he was fired. I’m not sure if you recall anything of that period, or any stories that you’ve heard about him.

	Bo:	No. Vaguely, it’s kind of hitting me on that firing thing, but I don’t remember. It’s trying to come to me right.

	Ba:	Okay. Do you recall Black Thursday? That event that happened? Bo:	No. No, I sure don’t.

	Ba:	Okay. Do you want me to give you a recap of what it was? Maybe that’ll be helpful.

	Bo:	Yeah. Yeah. That’s good.



	Ba:	Okay. In—I believe—1971 students protested at Tigert Hall, because they presented a list of demands. One of them was to have funding for a space, which ended becoming the Institute of Black Culture, but they had a list of other demands, which was more faculty and staff who were Black, Black students to enroll. They had a list of demands, so they protested and sat in Tigert Hall. I was wondering if you had any recollections.

	Bo:	I sure don’t. I sure don’t.



	Ba:	Do you recall the Institute of Black Culture?





	Bo:	Beg your pardon.



	Ba:	The Institute of Black Culture. Do you have any recollections of that space? It was on University Avenue. It looks like a house.

	Bo:	No, I sure don’t. Ba:	Okay.

	Y:	Let’s see.



	Ba:		Do you recall—I believe in 1995, I think you retired in 1994, but in 1995, the Institute of Hispanic and Latino Cultures came about, but I heard that before it was established there was years of planning. I’m not sure if you have any memories of any students ever coming to you. Or, is that something that—

	Bo:	Very few. But yes, there were occasions that I would get involved with other students. Hispanics, yeah, but not that often, no.

	AB:	[Inaudible 36:16].



	Bo:	Oh, thank you darling. Did you have any other questions regarding my wife could answer?

	Y:	Oh, no.



	Bo:	Okay. Okay. Thank you. Ba:	[Laughter]

	Bo:	Let me help you. Somebody gotta help me first, huh? Ba:	[Chuckles].





	AB:	[Inaudible 36:37].



	Bo:	Thank you.



	Ba:	So, coming to the University of Florida, do you remember your first memories of coming on campus, perhaps? What was it like, perhaps? No, okay.

	Y:	Do you remember ever experiencing any racism on the campus, or anything like that?

[Pause]



	Bo:	No. Sure don’t. Sure don’t. Sure don’t. Well, that’s good, too. Isn’t it? Never had that question asked before. That’s a good question.

	Ba:	Do you—oh, go ahead. Bo:	Beg your pardon.

	Ba:	No, go ahead. I think you were talking. Bo:	No, no. I finished.

	Ba:	Okay. Earlier, when I was asking about students coming to you, do you recall any students telling you about incidents that they were facing, perhaps related to racism?

[Pause]



	Bo:	I probably did, but evidently it wasn’t a lot of those kind of problems, because I’m sure it would’ve had an effect on me, my memory. But not that many.

	Ba:	So maybe—





	Bo:	Just tryin’ to think of what was a racial problem would have been, that I would’ve had some knowledge of. I can’t think of them.

	Ba:	Okay. Maybe another question. So, just about you—what inspired you to decide to work with Minority Affairs? Is there a reason why you particularly chose that job? Or any of recollections you have of—why work there in that field?

	Bo:	Well, I was chosen for the job.



	Ba:	Yeah. Why did you decide to go ahead and work in that? [Pause]

	Bo:	Because, see, if you look at my history in the Air Force from the beginning, look what happened to me. They sent me down from the main base, and these kind of things. And certainly, if something comes up in my life, that I can maybe help some—you know? I’m gonna take that. Because I’ve experience that. So, that was the main opportunity for me. That’s why I was willing really, to get into personnel and stuff like that. I was willing to go back to school. In fact, I had to drop out of—away from work. With the family, got a family and everything. I had to leave my job and go out to Nebraska. We didn’t have any money comin’ in or nothin’ like that and drop everything to come back and get that job. So, this is the effect of what happened.

	Ba:	With Minority Affairs, do you recall—because I know you mentioned a part of your job description, but I know your job description that you mentioned recruiting. So, I’m assuming there’s different positions within that. So, do you





remember what the mission was for Minority Affairs? What did the University say that it was?

	Bo:	Admissions for Minority Affairs is we had a certain—to get admitted, you needed a test score, a grade point average, a number of academic courses. And so, what we did—and the main thing that was keeping minority students out—what was it? What do you think?

	Ba:	Test scores.



	Bo:	That’s right! It was test scores. The test scores, too, when you think about it, test scores come—how do you get test scores? You get ‘em through going to school, but too quite often, your living conditions, your parents, and things like this can be involved with your test and how well you can test and all that. So, these kind of tests, too, was taken out of consideration. And getting students admitted was the time—do we need a program? Not a testing program, but a way that we can get them in other than by scoring three hundred on the appropriate placement test. So, we had a way. We did. And then, we had also a program that you can come into, that would be related to you not having met that minimum admissions requirement. And that you needed extra help to make sure you weren’t hurt; you could go on.

	Ba:	I don’t know if you’ve kept up with campus, but I was wondering if you—do you see this type of thing continuing? Or do you feel that these type of programs are not as emphasized, perhaps? I don’t know if you have any comments on— because I remember when I came in as a freshman. They had different programs





like AIM, and different things that they set up for students that might have not reached that test score. But, as a student now, sometimes I wonder if the University still tries to do these type of things, or has their criteria changed? Their perspectives change? I don’t know if maybe you had some thoughts on— because I don’t know if you’ve kept up.

	Bo:	No, I have not. I have not kept up with that. Ba:	Okay. Yeah.

	Bo:	But personally—this is a personal thing—I think as far as any particular student is concerned, like a minority student or a black student—that has changed. As far as any particular special kind of situation, I don’t know. But that has changed. I think—that as you were saying—the problem is still there. With other students as well—not minority, too. That problem—they need the extra help once they get in, and they don’t meet the minimum reading requirements. White, Black, or whatever.

	Ba:	I don’t have any other questions. Did you? Okay. So, is there anything we didn’t cover perhaps, that you’d like to talk about? I remember listening to another audio that another student did with you, and you talked about your life in Ocala. So, I don’t know if there’s anything else that you would like for us to talk about?

[Pause]



	Bo:	Sometimes, I’m concerned. The concern comes to me that the continuation should still…hopefully, it doesn’t go away completely, because as I said earlier— a few seconds ago—is that you still have students who may need certain





attention, because of being a minority. It happened maybe years ago, or with families, because the family could go where the family wanted to go, and could not provide what they may have needed in certain areas. So, you still are— sometimes when you look at broken homes and all. Where you—how many students come out of broken families? The amount of [inaudible 46:32] to take care of her. They don’t have a father. So, that person, too. So, you look at what group does this come to quite often? That may have this kind of a problem? Do you have help for him or have help for her? So, some of these things go through my mind. I realize that it’s not as bad as it was when I came, because of the segregation thing was obvious and noted. But now, segregation is still there, buddy. It’s still here. You can’t get it out of there, you see what I mean? And there’s different ways that you can do it, and no one would know to keep people from really knowin’ it. So, you always have to be very careful. Some of these things, sometimes, I’m concerned about.

	Ba:	I went to public schools, and now with the way that the laws are set up with what schools get funding, if you’re in an area where it’s low income, you’re school’s not gonna get money. And so, that disadvantages students—whoever goes there—so, that’s something, too, that universities need to consider.

	Bo:	It’s good, too, you have some very good ideas in there that you’re bringing up, because sometimes what amaze me, too, is how we can forget about things like that. How do you change things like that? It’s through participating in elections and all that kind of stuff. It’s gotten more complicated. We just need people like yourself. And like me.





	Ba:	The work you did, yeah. [Laughter]



	Bo:	And still be involved with, you know. I left, and I did this and that. But what are you doing now?

	Ba:	And even this is great, because we’re able to reflect back and see how things have changed, and we need to revisit. I see these things that you have on this sheet about the different scholarships and things, but I don’t really see them at the University. And we still have problems of retention and low enrollment rates. So, it’s great that you did that work and that we’re able to talk about it, because you can go back and see—because I talked to Dean Harry Shaw, and he wsa giving us reflections of what the University was able to do through minority affairs, but my impression was that at one point the University thought that we did a good job, so then it stopped. So, I mean, if these thing have been working before, it’s good to reintroduce them perhaps, and see how we can alleviate some of the issues that still go on since the time that you’ve been there and now.

	Bo:	Very good, very good.



	Ba:	So, we’re in 2018, and it’s still like a lot of the problems that were there during the establishment of Minority Affairs is still here.

	Bo:	Still there, right.



	Ba:	Thank you for sharing information, because it helps us.



	Bo:	Thank you for sharing your information, too. You’re right. That hit me, what you were saying there now. It’s hit me that we’ve figured it, I’ve figured it, you’ve done





all this, but that stuff is still there. Like I said, it’s in the air. And you can’t see it. You don’t do it the same way, and that’s why you still have to be active. What happened to the scholarship—Presidential Scholarship—that’s gone. Gone. You know? And if you don’t have people to ever know about it—that it was there— well nothing is gone really. Like you said, that you see that it once was there.

	Ba:	Yeah. So, yesterday we met with the Chief Diversity Officer. It’s a new position they’ve created, but other universities have also adopted it. So, I’m not sure what the job description is exactly, but I feel like this type of information…I don’t know if the university has it, because people come in and positions change. Things change. But I feel like a lot of things people have done previously were addressing the problems, but—me and Nicole were talking about this earlier, how people reinvent the wheel type of thing—this type of thing shows you, “hey, we we’re doing something and it’s successful,” and at a certain point, I imagine whatever success was gained went back down. So, maybe we need to look back and see—

	Bo:	That’s right. That’s right. You are right.



	Ba:	Hopefully we’re able to use this to help that type of work. Bo:	You are definitely right.

	Ba:	Okay. Well, I don’t have any other things, so I don’t know if you— Bo:	Yeah.

	Ba:	Okay, well thank you so much for—





	Bo:	I really enjoyed it. I really enjoyed it. Ba:	Thank you.

	Y:	Thank you. Bo:	Really have. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Bianka Ramirez; May 30, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Charity Kelly; July 22, 2019 Final-edited by:	Charity Kelly, May 19,2020





Abstract:



John Boatright talks about his life and experiences a Minority Admissions Officer at the University of Florida. Mr. Boatright started off in the Air Force as a cook’s helper. While in the Armed Forces he took college classes and with the help of Operation Bootstrap, a plan to help soldiers get college degrees, he was able to get his degree. Mr. Boatright went on to after serving his time in the Air Force, working in the housekeeping for the University of Florida. He eventually went on to become the Minority Admissions Officer for the University of Florida. This post was responsible for not only recruiting minorities but finding alternative to admitting minorities outside of standardized testing. Upon retiring from his post at





the University of Florida, Mr. Boatright had a few scholarships named in his honor. Including the Brain Bowl Scholarship and the Presidential Scholarship.

	Keywords:	[African-American History] [University of Florida] [Gainesville, Florida] [Air Force]