AAHP 098; Rollings; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 098 Estic Rollings

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht on August 21, 2010

30 minutes | 16 pages



Abstract: Estic Rollings describes going to Jerkins High School in Perry, Florida. She recalls the impacts of Jim Crow segregation on the school, and also the impact that the teachers’ dedication and commitment had on students at Jerkins. Their lessons inspired her to become a career educator in Taylor County, and she relates that inspiration also to the success of her children. Ms. Rollings discusses changes between her youth and today, and discusses some of the complexity of the impact of integration on the Black community.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; Integration]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 098

Interviewer: Anna Brodrecht Interviewee: Estic Rollings Date: August 21, 2010



	B:	Yeah. So, we’ll start off by getting you to say your name and spell it. R:	All right. I am Estic, E-S-T-I-C, Rollings, R-O-L-L-I-N-G-S.

	B:	Okay. And what years did you go to Jerkins?



	R:	I attended Jerkins—I graduated from Jerkins in 1968. So, it was during that time from [19]64 to [19]68. And I had a profound impact at Jerkins, because my mother taught at Jerkins many years ago. Her name was Ida Pearl Sterling. And, actually, she taught at a place called Hogsfoot Steel. I remember her talking vividly about Hogsfoot Steel. And she had to drive her vehicle there, and take two students here from Taylor County there. So, I guess my roots are here in Taylor County with the school system, and I just recently retired last year from Taylor County High School after forty years of teaching there. So, Jerkins prepared me for that. I remember very vividly, in high school, I was on the basketball team, and we had to play on this clay court. And we had no specific uniforms that we had to wear. We would exchange uniforms, and it was extremely cold, bitterly cold there. And during the breaks, we would go to a barrel and get warm: warm our hands and warm our feet. And those are the kinds of things that you remember. But what I remember most vividly is that the teachers were loving, caring teachers. They were sermons that we could see. We knew that they loved us, in spite of the deficits that we did not have. For example, we had second-handed books, and so often, we would complain about not being able to write our names in a textbook, but our teachers did not let us utilize this as a crutch. They would say such things that, “You may not be able to write your





name in the textbook, but you do have a textbook. And you know that this textbook will be here for you when you return daily.” And so often, many of the pages were discarded. They were dilapidated books. But our teachers would intervene and substitute the material that was torn out of the books for us. And it’s things like that that make you strong. But not only that, you have to know that a teacher cares about you as a person. That the teacher values you as a person. They want to know what you have to say, and they want you to know that what you are saying is meaningful. It makes a difference. And I think that is what we all want in life: we want to know that we are valued, that we know that people care about us. They care about what we have to say. And that’s how the teachers at Jerkins made us feel: that we were special. That we were unique—although we knew that were considered as second-handed citizens, what have you, but we still felt that we had value. That we were of value. And, so, those are some of the things that I remember very vividly. When I graduated from Jerkins in 1964, I was salutatorian of my class. Yes. And the teachers taught us that we were important. They never dealt the self-fulfilling prophecy of defeat to us, and I thought that was very important. And people would say to me that, “You graduated from Jerkins High School?” And I would say, “Yes, but I know that I have a profound background.” I think if you give a child a fish—and this is a firm belief of mine— that they can eat for a day. But if you teach them how to fish, they can eat for a lifetime. And that is what the teachers at Jerkins did for us—in addition to my mother, Ida Pearl Smith Sterling, who had a profound impact upon my life, because she taught me that we are all important in God’s sight; that each person





has something to offer to society; that you always welcome diversity, because we each have something that we can give, and we can learn from each other. So, those are some of the important things that I remember very vividly. I remember my teachers. Mrs. Jenkins, Laura Jenkins. I remember Mrs. Moore. I remember Mrs. Jaye. Mrs. Jaye was one that taught you—I guess had tough love. Tough love. And this is what so many of the teachers exemplified: tough love. “I want you to realize that I am your friend, as a teacher, but more importantly, I am your teacher, and I have an obligation to do what I know is right. And I want you to learn, not just for the sake of learning, for self-gratification, but to learn so that you will be able to go out and help someone else. And that has been one of my philosophies that I’ve utilized in my classroom for the forty years that I’ve taught in Taylor County. And I also utilize that philosophy with my children, my two sons—I have an older son, William Lee Rollings Jr., who is a computer tech in Dallas, Texas, with the government, and he is an adjunct professor at Cedar Valley University. He’s the author of a book, Jump Start Your Day. And, then, we have a younger son, Tedrick Rollings, who is in Houston, Texas, and he is also an engineer for a renowned company. [Laughter] So, we think that we’ve done quite well. And it was Jerkins that provided me with the rudiments that I needed. And you have to have an excellent background. If you have an excellent background, then you can soar to unknown heights. And I firmly believe that once you learn something, no one can take that from you. No one. They can incarcerate you physically, they can incarcerate you socially, but they cannot incarcerate your mind. Because you still have that ability to travel wherever you





desire to travel mentally. You can travel wherever you desire to travel socially, because of your mind. The mind is a powerful thing. And I think that we should always, always endeavor to educate our children: mentally, socially, and religiously. Yes. But I firmly believe that.

	B:	And having so much experience in public schooling these days, how was your education different in those days than it is today?

	R:	In those days, we knew that we were loved. It all goes back to love. We knew that we were loved. We knew that the teachers had a genuine interest in us as students. We knew that all of the students in the classroom were considered as valuable sources. We knew that. And you have to know that someone loves you first before you can believe that they have your interests at heart. You’ve got to know that they love you. And that’s the thing, I think, that really expedited matters for us, although we did not have all of those other amenities that we have today in the school system. You know, we have computers, we’re technological gurus. We have all of this information, everything that you can possibly name; but still, the students like that personal love and that personal interest from his or her teacher. You have to know that. You have to know that I might not be the most intellectual, astute student in the classroom, but the teacher still values me for something else that I have. And so you have to know that: that someone loves you. You have to know that, primarily. Even in your homes, children have to know that, “My parents love me unconditionally. They love me, not because I always do the right thing, not because I always make them look good, but they love me because of who I am.” And that’s the difference in what’s happening





today in the school system, as opposed to what was happening at Jerkins. We knew, without a preponderance of doubt, that we were loved. And that’s important: love.

	B:	How is it that—I have heard that teachers were almost like family members.



	R:	Yes, they were like family members. You knew that if the teacher told your mother or your dad that you misbehaved in class, you knew that you could not go home and say that, “Mom, the teacher is lying.” Because you were truly in big trouble then. You knew that. And you had parental support during those days. So often, during our era now—so often, but not always—the parents are intimidated by their children, and that allows the children to feed on that frenzy of intimidation. And the teachers do not have the parental support that they need.

This whole thing is like a village: the teacher has a task, but the parents have a task at home, as well. Let’s not exclude. The community has a task; the church also has a task. So often we like to place the blame just on one segment, but we can’t do that. You just can’t place the blame on the academic segment. Say, “Well, the teachers are not doing their job at the high school! The teachers are not doing their job at the elementary school!” You can’t do that. The parents have a job, as well. And, teaching is not just primarily sitting a child down at a desk, saying, “I’m going to teach you these concepts today.” Parents can teach their children daily: as you’re walking along, you’re in a car riding, you see something. You point that out to a child. You talk about that. You are in the grocery store with your child, you pick up a can of beans, and if the child can’t read: “Tell Mommy, what is that?” So, the parents play an important role, also. And I do not want





anyone to ever think that the role is just for the educators. And so often, we do that: we pass the buck. We say that the school is not doing their job; that the superintendent is not doing his job; the school board is not doing their job. But there is a task for everyone. And we are all incorporated into this. And we have a job to do.

	B:	And so, when did that change? Was there some specific movement in history where things changed away from the Jerkins model and more towards what we have today?

	R:	I think when we integrated—and do not get me wrong, now, integration was a good thing as well. But it also lacked some of the personal interaction that you had prior to integration. The students didn’t feel that they were loved, per se. They thought that they were being tolerated, and that makes a difference. And feeling that you’re loved, as opposed to feeling that you being tolerated; “I’m here, and so you have to tolerate me. So therefore, you’re going to do that because that is your job, and it’s not because you really care about me as a person.” I think that’s—it came with integration, when there was that big transition, so to speak. It came with integration.

	B:	And I’ve heard that integration, even though it was meant to be a positive thing, meant to be a progressive thing, that it was still forced because people at Jerkins were not necessarily happy to go over to the White school, and the White people weren’t exactly happy to have Jerkins come over. So—

	R:	Right.





	B:	—the whole community felt like, “This is just another step in us being forced to do something.” Did you feel forced? Because I mean, it’s hard to say, at any point, that desegregation is bad, but it did have its bad sides. And I think it’s okay to talk about that, to say, “This was the bad side of desegregation.”

	R:	That was one of the aspects that I see that was possibly a negative thing, in that it was forced, and so often when you’re forced to do something, you do not give that task a hundred and ten percent of your effort, because you’re forced to do it. But then, on the other hand, we have to realize that if there was not that forced integration, we would not be where we are today. We would not have the opportunities that we have today, as well. So, integration had its pros, and it had its cons. But I would like to think, also, that integration that had more cons than pros.

	B:	Okay.



	R:	Yes.



	B:	Let’s go through them. Let’s go through them. I would like to hear this.



	R:	Well, the cons would be that we had an opportunity to live a better life; we were exposed to more cultural activities; we had an opportunity to play sports in a gym, as opposed to playing sports outside in the cold. We had an opportunity to go into a cafeteria that was refined, a refined cafeteria, to eat some of the best food that could possibly be provided at that time. So, we had those cons. We had the opportunity to play on a basketball team, on the football team that was integrated, wherein the football players had helmets to wear. They did not have to wait until one football player came off the field and utilize his helmet that was





absolutely too small for him. So, you had an opportunity. There were diverse opportunities, and you had an opportunity to be involved in other activities that you would not have had if you were still in a segregated school. So, those were some of the cons that you had.

	B:	And it looks like, had it just been handled in a way that people were given a choice. That was the problem was that it was forced, rather than having the freedom of choice to say that, “We want to participate in this process of desegregation.” There was no participation, it was just the government said, “This is the way it will be.”

	R:	But so often, that comes with change. That comes with change. Mandatory elements come with change. And we are very reluctant to change sometimes. And change does not always bring about that personal gratification that we need. But I’m a firm believer in change, because if you don’t change, you become stagnant and you do not progress. So, I am a firm believer in change and I do see where integration did have its pros and cons. Because when I graduated from Jerkins in 1964, then I went directly to Florida A&M University, so I didn’t have an opportunity to go over to the integrated school. I went directly to Tallahassee, to FAMU. But I had an opportunity to teach in the integrated school.

	B:	Right. And your children went to— R:	Yes, both of our sons. Yes.

	B:	So, it just—every person that you interview has a different idea of whether or not integration was overwhelmingly good or overwhelmingly bad, and most people say that the bad part was, “We lost our community, a lot of our teachers were laid





off because they couldn’t employ all of the teachers at the new school, the fact that they chose to integrate that school, as opposed to—”

	R:	--as opposed to integrating this school. Yes.



	B:	And some people say, “Well, we just knew that was going to happen. There was no question as to which school they were going to integrate.”

	R:	And you lost a part of your heritage. And you can see that now, that we lost a part of our heritage when we integrated. And it was sad that this school could not be utilized as well for an academic setting. And that’s the one thing that I really regret: that this school was not utilized as an academic setting. But we know that it was not utilized as an academic setting because it was in the Black neighborhood. That’s why it has not been utilized now for any academic setting: because of its setting where it is, in the Black neighborhood.

	B:	And in Gainesville they, when Lincoln High School was desegregated-slash- integrated, they made it into a middle school. And that happened with Mebane and several other ones that we’ve heard around the state, was that the high school was demoted into a middle school. And that was a kick in the pants for the Black community, too, to say, “Well, this is a high school. It’s for older students and whatever.” But that didn’t happen to Jerkins.

	R:	Right, that’s what I was about to say: but that would have been a blessing to us if that had happened, but that did not happen here at Jerkins. And that’s the only thing that I really regret: that Jerkins was left here to be in the dilapidated state that it’s in now, and could not be utilized for something constructive, something positive, other than an eyesore.





	B:	And I know that there was—because I heard that the football team was awesome, that the basketball team was great. There had to have been trophies, and flags, and memorabilia. What happened to all of that stuff?

	R:	So much of it was left here at the school, and it was just discarded. So much of it. B:	Just came in and put it all in the garbage?

	R:	Yes. So much of it was.



B:  Wow. And that’s got to be one of those things, too, where it just makes you tear up, thinking about, this was your high school years, you know? And you usually have so many good memories of it, and to think that it’s gone.

	R:	And I even look at the media center here, and all of the books that were used in the media center, how they were just discarded as well. They were left on the floors to deteriorate, and those kinds of things. I know you guys probably have viewed the other segment of the school—

B:  We went in a few. And it really is; there’s books everywhere, and desks tumped over, and it really does look, like, straight-up abandoned. If you were to think of an abandoned building, that’s the—.

R:  Yes, and it’s sad. It makes you really want to just tear up when you think about that.

	B:	And to think that there was kind of a lack of respect for the fact that this was a community! Like, all the stories that I’ve heard was, “It’s a community center now, and it always has been a community center, because the school was your community.” It was your church, it was your family, it was your schooling, it was your everything.





	R:	It was the nucleus. It was the nucleus of everything. And you sort of feel disconnected when the nucleus of anything is destroyed. When the nucleus of a family is annihilated, you become sort of disconnected. And that same thing happened with the nucleus—Jerkins was considered as a nucleus, and when it was destroyed, you sort of felt disconnected.

	B:	And so, integration in that respect, too, was not so good, because the Bison was gone.

	R:	Yes, the bison was gone. Definitely. The Bison— B:	You became—what was the—

	R:	The Bulldogs. Yes, the Bison was gone.



	B:	And, so, here we are—how many years later? Forty years later? R:	Forty years later!

	B:	Reviving the Bison.



	R:	Yes, trying to do that. Working very diligently at it.



	B:	And do you think it’s a valiant effort? Is it worthwhile?



R:  Yes! It is worthwhile. Because your children, your descendents, need to know the source from whence they came, as well. So, therefore, I think it is a valiant effort. Yes.

	B:	And to remake this place as a community center—do they have any ideas for what kind of things the community center will be used for? Have you heard anything?





	R:	No, I have not heard any definitive answers as to how it will be used. As of now, it’s used as a voting precinct—Precinct Thirteen—and it’s also used to house a segment of the Boys’ and Girls’ Club.

	B:	Okay, great. Which I’m sure is good news, when you think about the things it could be used for.

	R:	Yes, but then there is so much more that it could be used for. B:	That’s true, especially for academics.

	R:	For academics, yes.



	B:	And so, I have a question: we were walking through the back there, and there was paintings on the wall and stuff like that. Was that exactly the way it was, or have they repainted it since you’ve been here?

	R:	Some of that is in its original state. Because it was also housed for Head Start here. They had a Head Start center here, and some of those rooms that you see now were housed for Head Start classrooms. And my mother taught here in Head Start for twenty-five years. Yes. So.

	B:	You were an educator, through and through.



	R:	Yes, I always like to say that teaching is in my blood.



	B:	And it really is. And I think even your blood meaning, not just your biological blood, but also your community.

	R:	Community, yes.



	B:	Because you had the privilege of getting to come here and experience that. It sounds like such a wonderful place.





	R:	It was. It was. We welcomed—for me personally, I enjoyed coming to school every day. I knew that there was a challenge every day, and I live upon challenges. I like a challenge. And it was very good. It was very good in that sense.

	B:	Was there anything that I didn’t ask? Would you like to include any final thoughts or additions?

	R:	I don’t think so, but would like to think that Jerkins had a profound impact upon my life and the lives of my children. And I’m not being ostentatious when I say this, but I know that. My rudiments were excellent rudiments, and so they allowed me to just soar to unknown heights. And I don’t want to diminish the efforts of my parents, my mother and my dad. And so, we instill those same concepts into our children. And I would like to say, also, that my older son and his wife have developed the Rollings Foundation. They are feeding, clothing, and educating children in South Africa. They have five schools that they are supporting in South Africa, and I am very proud of them, as well. And my mother had a profound impact upon my boys, William and Tedrick.

	B:	So, the educating blood is also genetic! [inaudible 25:28] that it’s just something that they want to do, to help.

	R:	Yes! And my younger son, Tedrick, was valedictorian of his class at Taylor County High School. He graduated in 2002. So that was a difficult feat, as well: being a Black young man, and you are valedictorian of your class. Yes.

	B:	Is this something that you ever thought you would see?





	R:	No, I never did. And people ask me, said, “Did you start early with the concept of instilling this into his mind?” No. We always said to our children, as my mother said to us, and our teachers said to us at Jerkins, “Whatever task that you encounter, give it your very best.” And so, we always would say to our children, give it your very best. Give a hundred and ten percent of your effort. If you give your best, then God will do the rest. And I firmly believe that.

	B:	That’s proven to be very true. [Laughter]



	R:	My husband, William Rollings, played on the football team here at Jerkins. Yes, he was a football player, and he also played basketball. And, this is ironic, that I thought I was very refined and basketball was not for me. But, because he was a basketball player, I went out for the basketball team, and was very successful.

Yes, I made the team. [Laughter] I made the team and did exceptionally well, because I gave it a hundred and ten percent of my effort. And one of the coaches was Shirley Scott. She was the first Black mayor in Taylor County. So, she was my physical education instructor. So, you can see the impact that Jerkins had upon us.

	B:	It taught you how to succeed and how to take hold of opportunities.



	R:	Yes, and not to feel sorry for yourself. To have a pity party about what you don’t have. You thank God for what you do have, and you utilize it to its maximum capability. Yes. So.

	B:	So, despite all of the setbacks, it took belief in your own mind that you can’t—



	R:	Right, believe in yourself. You’ve got to believe yourself, but before you can believe in yourself, you’ve got to know that there’s someone else who also





believes in you. People readily say to you, “You’ve got to believe in yourself.” But also, you’ve got to know that there was someone else who believed in you.

Someone who believes that I can do this, that someone is not dealing me that self-fulfilling prophecy of failure before I get started. You know, that kind of thing: you will never amount to anything, or, because you came from an inferior, so to speak, school, that you will never be able to catch up. That’s not true. That is not true.

	B:	It only becomes true when you believe it’s true. R:	Right, when you believe it’s true. Yes.

	B:	Well, it was a pleasure talking with you. You just provided so many insights from your past, having grown up in an educational family, and then—

	R:	Yes, but I certainly hope I gave you an opportunity to pose the questions that you desire, because I’m very loquacious. I’m very—once I get started, I just go on, and on.

	B:	[Laughter] No, it was perfect. Better you to tell what you think is important than me asking questions, because you’ve answered all the questions that I would have asked anyway. So.

	R:	So, is there anything else that you might not have—? B:	I think that’s it.

	R:	Okay! Well, it was a pleasure, and thank you for interviewing me. And I certainly hope that you will be—

	B:	No, thank you! Sorry for keeping you waiting like that.





	R:	That’s okay. I hope that you were able to gain something, because you’ve done so many interviews, and I think we’re all being repetitious. You’re hearing, basically, the same thing.

	B:	You provided a whole new perspective. R:	Oh, you think so?

	B:	Yes. Oh, yes. Oh yes, definitely. R:	Well, it was my pleasure.

	B:	Yes, thank you so much. [End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, September 27, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019