AAHP 175A; Watkins; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 175 Ceola Watkins

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Marna Weston on May 11, 2011 27 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: Ceola Watkins grew up in High Springs, Florida, and she describes her family history and her experiences growing up including the three jobs she worked through high school—all domestic work for White families. In her youth, when her school in High Springs burned down, she moved to Levy County to go to school, and then moved back after they opened the new Douglass High School in High Springs. She attended Florida Normal College in St. Augustine, and graduated from Bethune Cookman College in Daytona.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Douglass High School]























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 175

Interviewee: Ceola Watkins Interviewer: Marna Weston Date of Interview: May 11, 2011



	MW:	Okay, and I can tell I’m going ‘cause I have these green lights. Good evening, this is Marna Weston with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m out at Mt Carmel United Methodist Church in High Springs. I’m speaking with Ms. Ceola Palmore Watkins. Thank you very much for speaking with me this evening.

	CW:	Mmhm.



	MW:	Okay, you have a soft voice, I’m going to have to hold it up here. CW:	Yeah, that’s okay.

	MW:	Could you please spell your full name?



	CW:	C-E-O-L-A, P-A-L-M-O-R-E, W-A-T-K-I-N-S.



	MW:	Okay, and what is your date of birth? CW:	August 25, 1925.

	MW:	And where were you born? CW:	High Springs, Florida.

	MW:	Were you born at home or were you born in a hospital?



	CW:	Home, home. At that time, eighty-five years ago, home birth for Black people. MW:	Mmhm, yeah definitely, without a doubt.

	CW:	[Laughter]



	MW:	And do you happen to remember the name, was it a doctor or was it a midwife? CW:	Midwife. Only thing I know, they call her Aunt Nona. Only thing I remember.

	MW:	And she probably delivered a lot of children. CW:	Yes.

	MW:	Did she live in High Springs proper?







	CW:	Yes, mmhm.



	MW:	But she would go anywhere she was called from? CW:	I imagine so.

	MW:	Okay. Tell me please about your mother and your father. What were their names?

	CW:	My mother name was Marietta Cook Palmore. My father name was Lucius Columbus Palmore.

	MW:	Do you remember their birthdays or around the time they were born?



	CW:	Yes, my mother was born May 7, 1900. My father was born I think April 20, 1895. MW:	And how did they originally come to this area?

	CW:	He was a railroad man, worked for the Atlantic Coastline. He was born in Ichetucknee Springs, Florida. And my mother was born in Montbrook, Florida, which is in Levy County.

	MW:	Do you have strong memories of your grandparents? CW:	Yes.

	MW:	Okay, could we talk first about the ones on your dad’s side. Who were his parents?

	CW:	I don’t know them. I recently learned that my grandfather name was Adam Palmore and my grandmother name was Lydia King, it was. And it was interracial thing, and they did reside together in [inaudible 02:52]. She was Black and he was White. But they lived together.

	MW:	Okay, and that would have been very uncommon at that time. CW:	At that time, very much so.







	MW:	Or if not uncommon, un-publicly discussed. Not discussed widely. CW:	Right. And they had four children, three boys and one girl.

	MW:	And what were their names?



	CW:	Annabelle, Zach Palmore, and James King, and my dad, Lucius. MW:	Lucius Columbus Palmore.

	CW:	Mmhm.



	MW:	Alright, let’s switch over to your mother’s side, since you probably have more memories of your grandparents on that side.

	CW:	Yes, yes. MW:	Okay.

	CW:	I do. My grandfather name was Thomas Cook and my grandmother name was Elizabeth North Cook.

	MW:	And where were they originally from? CW:	Montbrooks.

	MW:	Montbrooks. CW:	Florida.

	MW:	Do you happen to know their birthdays?



	CW:	My grandmother birthday was October 20, and I don’t know the year. I don’t remember. I have a lot of that written down, but I don’t remember that now. And my grandfather birthday was in July, July 7, I think. But I don’t know the year. I have it written down. It was 1863, for my grandfather.

	MW:	So right in the middle of the Civil War.







	CW:	Mmhm. And my grandmother was—anyway, it was like five years later, which would be 1868.

	MW:	So were they slaves, were they born in slavery or were they free? CW:	They were free but my great grandmother was slavery.

	MW:	Okay, what was her name?



	CW:	Her name was Sallie Jenkins and she born in North Carolina, the place I don’t know. But I know she could read and write because she was one of the house slaves and she was—the daughter was being taught she picked up on it and she taught and she taught all of her children to read. Her daughters—she had three daughters—they’d read and write. They had the same stroke. My mother had the same stroke. That very plain, straight up type of writing.

	MW:	Not the cursive but just the–



	CW:	It was cursive but it was very straight, it wasn’t slant. Very straight.



	MW:	Do you know the story of how your great grandmother got from North Carolina to Florida?

	CW:	No, I don’t.



	MW:	Do you happen to know the name of the family that owned her? CW:	No, I don’t.

	MW:	Okay, well that’s okay. Let’s talk a little bit about your immediate family. Do you have brothers and sisters?

	CW:	They’re all deceased. I had two brothers and two sisters. MW:	Okay, could you tell me their names from oldest to youngest?







	CW:	Yes. Lucius Columbus Palmore, Jr., Edgar Clifford Palmore, Claire Neil Palmore and Elma Palmore.

	MW:	What was it like—where do you fall in the order with the children? CW:	The last.

	MW:	You’re the baby.



	CW:	Yes, the youngest. And I’m the only surviving one. MW:	Okay, now did you get away with everything?

	CW:	No.



	MW:	Or did you have to work hard like they did, too?



	CW:	All of us had to work hard in my house. Because my father was murdered. He was killed coming from Jacksonville and someone shot him. Well you know they never tried to find out who did that, but we all had an idea.

	MW:	Was he robbed, was it some kind of a transaction or just malice? CW:	Malice.

	MW:	You’re Black, you’re dead. CW:	Mmhm. Yes.

	MW:	You grew up, your father was not there ‘cause he was murdered, that probably put a lot of extra chores on everybody.

	CW:	Yes.



	MW:	What kind of chores and what kind of duties did you and your brothers and sisters have when you grew up?

	CW:	We had, my mother worked, she worked at a dry cleaners and we all worked, we all had jobs as soon as we were old enough. Everybody worked. My brother







worked, I remember him working at a hog wrestle town. My oldest brother worked on a farm for a family. My sisters, they worked in house, cleaning, you know, and I did, too, soon as I was old enough. I started when I was eleven years old. High Springs was a railroad town then. And this rooming house where I started out I was eleven years old.

	MW:	What was the name of the rooming house?



	CW:	Parker’s Rooming House. And I started at eleven and I worked for them all the way through high school.

	MW:	How did you get the job?



	CW:	A friend, a neighbor was working there. She had better paying job and she gave that one to me. So when I went and interviewed they accepted me and they were very kind to me all the way through school. And I only worked for them during the school time. On the weekend I had another job where I would go and work on Friday’s afternoon and then on Tuesday and Wednesday I had another job at a house where I would go and do the laundry and I’d go back the next day and take it in and iron it, fold it, and put it away. And so I had three jobs all the way through high school.

	MW:	From eleven all the way through. What was your Friday job, what did you do at that job?

	CW:	Mopped bathroom and kitchen. Got paid seventy-five cents for that. MW:	Seventy-five cents a day?

	CW:	Uh-huh. For that afternoon.



	MW:	That was considered good money?







	CW:	Yeah, for that time.



	MW:	What were the families that you worked for like?



	CW:	They were very kind to me, I can say that. Very kind. And then during the summertime, I would work at the rooming house. Then at four o’clock ‘til eleven, I worked in a cafe, washing dishes.

	MW:	Okay, what was the name of the cafe? CW:	Georgia’s.

	MW:	And where was that in location to where we are right now? How close was it to here?

	CW:	Three four blocks, about three blocks up.



	MW:	Going toward Ft. White or going back toward town? CW:	No, going toward town.

	MW:	And where did you live, where was your family?



	CW:	We lived out about four blocks from here, two, four blocks. My father had just built a home so we were lucky, we had our own home—place.

	MW:	How did your mother handle—how did she talk to you about the fact that your father had been killed, how did you find out?

	CW:	More or less from other people. She didn’t do very much talking about it. I think it’s really a hard thing, ‘cause I was like, four weeks old when he was killed. Then she had all these responsibilities, these five children. But her father owned the farm, he had a 360 acre farm, which is unusual for a Black man in Levy County. And they would give her supplies, we’d go down there and stay during the summer with them and that was kinda—but after we were old enough to work,







naturally, we had to stay here to work. But before that we would spend a lot of time with my mother’s family.

	MW:	Do you know how the farm came into the family? Was it forty acres and a mule land?

	CW:	No.



	MW:	It was not.



	CM:	Unh-uh. I really don’t know ‘cause I know my great grandfather was there, grandpa Steve. Grandpa Steve that was my great-granddad on my mother’s side. And on my granddaddy’s side, I know he had property next there, I think he bought it, I guess. And eventually my—I have two aunts still living, one is ninety- six, and one is one hundred.

	MW:	What are their names?



	CW:	Luisa Gunner, which will be one hundred Friday, and Wilhelmina Holder, she’ll be—she is ninety-six. So they are Cooks. Their maiden name Cook.

	MW:	We have a slight adjustment here, so that’s okay. Now, y’all could always sit closer, you know [laughter from multiple people] I mean, you’re choosing to sit in the back. [Mic rearrangement] Some acoustic changes for the people that are in the room that are in the back, so, just a second before we get to the interview.

Thank you, Reverend Williams.



	RW:	You’re welcome.



	MW:	It’s back. Can you tell me about your earliest memory of education? Where did you first receive your primary education?







	CW:	Down in Levy County, place Montbrooks was I mentioned. Went to school there we had to walk about a couple of miles to school and I was in—we had what we called primer, and ABC first, which you call I imagine preschool now. ABC, primer, and first grade, and I did second and third there. And then when I came to High Spring cause we didn’t have a school here, the school was burned down in High Spring, so we went down there in Levy County and went to school in—my older brother and sister, they went to Leesburg where I had an aunt, they went to school there. And then after the school was opened up here, we came back in High Springs for school. And did the rest of my—I finished high school here in High Springs.

	MW:	You must have really loved school to walk two miles—can you imagine kids today talking about walking two miles to school?

	CW:	We walked from—everybody on this end of town walked on the other side of town to school, everybody.

	MW:	Okay.



	CW:	So when I finished my education, when I finished at Douglass, I went to Florida Normal and took cosmetology.

	MW:	In Tallahassee, Florida A&M?



	CW:	No, Florida Normal, in St. Augustine. MW:	Oh, okay, Florida Normal.

	CW:	Yeah, it was a Baptist school. MW: Okay.







	CW:	But I’m a United Methodist. But I end up at Bethune Cookman, got my BS, which I stayed out of school like thirteen years and went back to Bethune Cookman and I finished three and a half years, didn’t go during the summer. I say I couldn’t go during the summer, so I had to do it that way. And what I did, like on Saturdays, I would take sick—as long as you had a B average, you know you could take further classes on Saturdays—I’d take six hours so that mean I could finish three and a half years, that’s why I got out.

	MW:	Did you know Mrs. Bethune?



	CW:	No. I met her before I went down there, but she passed a couple of years before I went.

	MW:	What was it like when you met her? What did you all talk about?



CW: We, I didn’t, just didn’t get in a conversation with her. She was the type that she talked, you listened. [Laughter] that’s what you did. You know, it was in a group, it wasn’t person to person like I am with you know.

MW: Did you have a favorite teacher and a favorite subject when you went to school? CW:  Yes, Mrs. Lovett was my favorite teacher in sixth grade and fourth grade, too.

MW:  Mrs. Lovett?



	CW:	Mmhm. She was one of the teachers and she was a member here at Mt. Carmel, she lived across the street. And I was, well I was valedictorian of my class at Douglass. Then when I finished at Cookman, I went to Hampton, to get my master’s.

	MW:	What year did you graduate from Douglass? CW:	1943.







	MW:	And do you remember the principal? CW:	Yes, Harold Jones.

	MW:	What was Mr. Jones like?



	CW:	Very nice person. He was more like a father type for us, especially for the girls. He would call us and talk to us, just like a father would, you know like if he hear something, he never would say what girl that he heard something about, he just called us all together and talked to us, just like a father would. Did what was becoming for a girl, what should, shouldn’t do, things like that.

	MW:	Did you have home ec in school? CW:	Yes we did.

	MW:	Okay, and what were the things in home ec that you were good at? CW:	Sewing.

	MW:	You liked to sew? Why sewing?



	CW:	I just loved clothes and I didn’t have any and we could make them and that would give you more clothes.

	MW:	When you graduated Hampton with your master’s, what did you do then?



	CW:	I taught elementary school, fourth grade. I taught early childhood three years, I taught second grade one year, and the rest of the twenty eight years are done in fourth grade.

	MW:	Do you have children, do you have a family? CW:	Yeah, I have a girl and a boy.

	MW:	Okay, what are their names?







	CW:	Clyde Watkins, Jr. He’s a doctor in Atlanta and Carol Watkins, she’s in New Orleans.

	MW:	And how did you meet their father? We haven’t really talked about him yet.



	CW:	Well I had a couple of marriages. I met my child’s father, because the girl is one that I accepted, she wasn’t by birth. I have one biological son. And his father I met here in High Springs.

	MW:	Okay, and what was his name? CW:	Clyde Watkins, Sr.

	MW:	Is Mr. Watkins still living?



	CW:	No, he’s been deceased now for seventeen years. We were married for like forty years, but he passed.

	MW:	Where did you all meet?



	CW:	Here in High Springs, just casual. In High Springs, small town, you meet people most any place.

	MW:	Were you at the store?



	CW:	No, no, well I just said maybe a friend’s house.



	MW:	And when did you know that y’all were going to be together? How did you know?



	CW:	We would meet and just talk and eventually just got really to courting or dating or whatever you want to call it, and we eventually married.

	MW:	Did he go to the service during the wars? CW:	No, no.

	MW:	He did not. Did you have family members or friends who did that?







	CW:	Both of my brothers were in the service. One was in the Marines, he did thirty years and the brother did, I think he did twelve. And he eventually went into electronics and he lived in New Jersey until he retired and then he built a house in Ocala and moved down here, back to Florida. And the other brother was retired in California, and that’s where he died.

	MW:	So except for going to school, you’ve always lived here? CW:	Yes.

	MW:	So I’m going to ask the question, and you can think about it for a second or maybe you already have the answer: Why is High Springs important to you in that way that you would spend your entire life here?

	CW:	My mother was here and I was one of those children—momma’s child or mother’s child, whichever, we always called her mother—I was a mother’s child. And I did not want to leave her, so I stayed here. Only time I went like three summers I went to the shore in New Jersey, to Cape Maine, New Jersey. Other than that I was in High Spring. Because that was where my mom.

	MW:	Was there a big difference between living here and living in New Jersey, I mean it probably was, but could you maybe sum it up? What would be the big difference between living there and living here?

	CW:	There it was just a job, here it was home. I would stay from, usually from April until September in New Jersey, and then I would come home. I had planned to stay but it snowed and I did not like snow, so I was home.

	MW:	Living in High Springs for so long and having this perspective, what to you is the biggest change that’s taken place in High Springs as a child to now, for you?







	CW:	One thing is, like with jobs, very few people, it’s quiet, it’s not sociable, you know, you don’t have that much to socialize or anything of that nature. Other than that like church and home for me. My age, I’m eighty-five years old, that’s what it is for me now.

	MW:	So, why is church important?



	CW:	I was raised in church. This is the church where I was christened right here, Mt.



Carmel, and it’s always been important. My mom—we came to church every Sunday. We would start with Sunday school, morning service, you had an afternoon service then, we had what we called league youth and then you had your night service. We came to all of it. When mother came for choir practice during the week, we were with her. She brought her girls with her. When we had, what we call prayer meeting and class meeting, she came to that, we were with her. So I was raised in church and that’s a big part of my life, church.

	MW:	What do you see as the future of High Springs?



	CW:	It’s hard to tell, cause it’s nothing here for youth as far as labor, jobs or anything, so I don’t see anything, unless, I did make this statement, unless they do something, it’s going to be a settlement instead of a town. That means no jobs coming in or anything of interest.

	MW:	I’m going to mention a couple of just historical issues, or just points or a name, and it’s going to be very short, and then whatever reaction you have from them, just tell me what you think about. For example, if I say, Martin Luther King.







	CW:	I think of the march, I think about his speech, his famous speech. I think about the work that he has done to help our people. I had a chance to hear him speak at Bethune Cookman, and I enjoyed that very much.

	MW:	The Vietnam War.



	CW:	I think about my brothers, who were there, I had a nephew that was there, the Vietnam War.

	MW:	The election of Barack Obama as president of the United States.



	CW:	Something that was a surprise for me. And I was very very happy about it, I voted for him and I never thought he would make it there. But I’m so proud of it and I’m happy he is there.

	MW:	The reelection of Barack Obama as president. CW:	I hope he makes it. A second time, I do.

	MW:	Ms. Watkins, I want to thank you for taking the time to come out and be part of the workshop. It’s gotta be tough for you to be in public and all these things to come out at once. Normally these things are more one on one or intimate, but I really appreciate it on behalf of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program I want to thank you for taking the time to come and speak candidly about your life. With such a long life, I know there’s a lot of stuff we haven’t talked about, but I want to give everybody in the audience a chance to ask a few questions or comment as well, so this will conclude the interview. But before it finishes, I’d like to give you the opportunity to say anything that may be on your mind. It might be a question that you have, or a comment, or a closing thought, and when you finish that thought that will conclude the interview, with our thanks.







	CW:	No, I don’t have anything special to say. If that’s all the questions you want from me, that’s all I want.

	MW:	Thank you very much. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jessica Lancia, May 1, 2013



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, November 27, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019