AAHP 224; Flagler; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 224 Lewis Flagler

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Jillian Flagler on November 27, 2011

49 minutes | 21 pages



Abstract: Mr. Lewis Flagler is interviewed by his granddaughter about his life growing up in Pompano Beach, Florida. He ended up being recruited into the army but never went to boot camp. He was followed by MP’s from state to state because he had gone AWOL, but he never ended up serving in the military. He briefly discusses race relations between Whites and Blacks in Pompano Beach and West Palm Beach. He finishes the interview discussing President Obama’s election and how many people in his generation are unaware that racism is still prevalent today.



Keywords: [African American History; segregation; Pompano Beach]

























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 224

Interviewee: Lewis Flagler Interviewer: Jillian Flagler Date: November 27, 2011



	JF:	Hello.



	LF:	Hello.



	JF:	My name is Jillian Flagler and I am interviewing Mr. Lewis Flagler, my grandfather, under the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. Thank you for doing the interview.

	LF:	You’re welcome.



	JF:	Well, my first question would be when and where were you born?



	LF:	I was born March the 24th, 1942, in Chiefland County, Florida. It was a Monday morning about 11:30, take or give a little. Chiefland, Florida is located in Levy County about 60/70 miles west of Gainesville. State road 27 goes right down through it. It’s called Old Town on some maps.

	JF:	Were you delivered at a hospital or by a midwife? LF:	Midwife.

	JF:	Midwife. Okay. Is that how everyone was—



	LF:	Mostly. Back in the day, yes. Nobody had the money to go to the hospital. White folks.

	JF:	Okay. What was school like at that time? How did you get there?



	LF:	Well, I wasn’t old enough to go to school back there. We moved here when I was about three/four years old, and I attended Pompano Elementary School, Pompano Beach, Florida, where we moved to, and I attended Pompano ‘til the third grade, and we moved from West Pompano into East Pompano and there I was enrolled in Blanche Ely Elementary School.





	JF:	Okay. How far did you go in school? In what grade or college?



	LF:	I finished the 11th. I was graduating from the 11th to the 12th but I didn’t ever go. I took a few classes, completed a few classes at a couple of [inaudible] colleges [inaudible] city colleges but I didn’t—Just for my benefit, not for educational purposes, just for extending my knowledge of this and that, and just so I’ll say I’ve been. I didn’t want a job to get and—so I just went to expand my, what do you call it, horizon?

	JF:	Yes. Did you—you grew up in the Jim Crow South? LF:	What do you call “Jim Crow?”

	JF:	When they had all those laws about Black people stepping off of the sidewalk when White people come by, you can’t look them in the eye when you’re talking to them, ‘Yes, ma’am,’ ‘Yes, sir.’

	LF:	Well, that was a little—some of that was a little bit before my time, but I did come up where there were signs about Black folks and White folks signs, water fountains, and restrooms and restaurants and these sort of things but—. They were still prevalent in some cities, getting off the side walk and don’t look them in the eye and this and that, oh yeah. And a lot of them still feel this way. That’s why you have Senators calling the President “liars” in [20]11.

	JF:	Okay. Let’s see. What was the story about our last name, Flagler, being Mitchell before? Maybe you could go into detail on that.

	LF:	Our birth name is Mitchell. An aunt who was married to a Flagler person. When the father and the mother separated, the father took one and the mother took one, but the father passed a little while later, and because the child was so





young, he didn’t know anything about the Mitchell name. Since she was a Flagler, she just changed his name to Flagler, and that’s how we come about to be Flaglers instead of Mitchells. And we don’t anything about that other half of the twin, don’t know where he’s at. We’ve heard things, but we don’t really know.

	JF:	Is that what you meant by—when you said I wasn’t a real Flagler?



	LF:	Well, that’s a whole ’nother story. That’s, that’s a—we won’t go into that about adultery and that sex scandal about women and all that. That’s a whole ’nother, that’s a whole, completely different apple. You just leave that as being Flagler. But it’s common, and especially in the White neighborhoods. Well, might as well, huh? Come to find out I’m not even a Flagler. I’m one of those Saturday Night Special childrens, when momma needs some money or need some of this, need some of that, and somebody got some extra cash, they—so—It happens all over the world, even today, even in the rich and famous’ homes. Ladies and men give it up, and they wind up with child, and it’s just an uproar. As for me, my name is—I understand I am an Allen by birth. Not even a Flagler, not even a Mitchell. It’s how prestigious, you might say, people have been in getting kids and raising kids and living their lives. Sometimes out of necessity and sometimes just out of desiring a woman, but sometimes it’s hard to say. So—

	JF:	Okay, I think I had one more question about school. I must have skipped over it.



You went—was it segregated—it was segregated when you started?



	LF:	Yes.



	JF:	And was it still segregated when you—?



	LF:	When I left? Yes. [19]59. It was still segregated.





	JF:	Okay. All right.



	LF:	A lot of things didn’t come to the Black neighborhoods until they integrated the schools, so they brought the White folks over here. We were not supposed to mess with White women. And talk to them? Girls? No, that was a no-no. Some places it’s still enforced under the table, and—but, the drugs didn’t come over here. A lot of things didn’t come over here until after integration came. So many things.

	JF:	What type of things? You said drugs? Like in the [19]80s—?



	LF:	Well basically, ways of life. Adultery and sexualism was always in both neighborhoods, plentiful, but this killing families and robbing and stealing. We did a lot of petty things, but we didn’t—we weren’t nationally known as doing things. We got our—a lot of things from White folks, I believe. And we didn’t kill ourselves like they did until after integration and we didn’t do a lot of things until we socialized, crossed the tracks regularly. So—.

	JF:	That’s interesting because there was a—the wife of Stetson Kennedy, who was a White man who was really pro-Black rights throughout his whole life. He just died recently and his wife came to speak to my class, and she was saying that a lot of things changed after integration. And she was saying that Black people gained a lot of things from integration and so did White people. And she said that both races also lost a lot.

	LF:	Yes, very much so.



	JF:	That sounds like what you were just saying.





	LF:	Very much so. We gained—what did we gain? We gained the right to work harder by having a title, as form of supervisor, which we did anyway. We gained—to be able to buy a house and Mr. Charlie not give us one, allow us— steal our—make us work in the fields all day for six or seven dollars. We gained the right to—help me, Lord—yeah, there were benefits, there were ups and there was downs and there were—there was always goods and bad in that—in that—in the mutual understanding of integration. And we lost a lot of ourselves by integrating with them, because a lot of us tend to want to be like them and want to hang out with them. And we still get the butt end of everything, especially in the criminal courts, but they always say it’s us. It’s the Black this, and the Black that, and the Black this, but they can never get enough of us. They can never get enough of us. And so—next question.

	JF:	Okay. Were you ever in the military? LF:	No.

	JF:	Was that a personal choice, because I thought you all had a draft?



	LF:	Okay, I passed the test with a 98 score. I received a bus ticket and a permission slip to a seal when I was in Lawton, Oklahoma, in [19]59. I was so dead set on going to the Army, but Vietnam had just got—was just beginning to get started up, and I was so gung-ho and happy about getting my ticket to go into the armed forces, and I walked out of that recruiting office so happy and jubilant, and all of this and all of that. By the time I walked six blocks, that train of thought had went to California. And about six blocks, the next six blocks, I walked through the Greyhound bus station still thinking about going to Oklahoma City to the recruiter





and be recruited, but as I walked in that Greyhound bus station, there was a trash can just as I walked in. And that Greyhound bus ticket, I stuck it in the trash can, and walked straight out of the door. Ain’t thought about it since. Well, I thought about it, but two months later, about three months later, some guys came to the house. I saw them as I was getting off work from a pizza place that I was working at. I waited until they left, and I went and packed my little grip, and caught me a bus back down south. When they showed up at the house down in Pompano, I left there and went to Crown Point, New York. When they showed up in Crown Point, I went over to Cedarville, New York. They showed up again, I went to Middlebury, Vermont. They showed up at Middlebury, I came back down to Bridgeton, and I stayed for a while, and I didn’t hear about it or see them come anymore, and so I stopped worrying about them after about three years.

	JF:	Were these guys recruiters?



	LF:	No they weren’t recruiters. They were MPs in suits— JF:	What is an—?

	LF:	Looking for an AWOL turkey. For somebody who had got their money or tickets or whatever and signed up, said he wanted to be in the Army and then he didn’t show. Yep, I was AWOL. But I never went to the Army, and I just felt that I was going to be, I’ll be dead, because it was just so much wrongness in Vietnam and so much—and I never had fear about anything. See that’s another thing. I wasn’t crazy. I was aware of my circumstances always, but I just never had that fear about somebody could hurt me or—I just didn’t have that much sense. I didn’t





have that much sense. That’s why your mama got that wrist—I ain’t gonna say nothing.

	JF:	Let’s see. I had another question. I didn’t write it down but I wanted to know— ’cause there was Martin Luther King, Malcolm X, what—I can’t remember—Huey

P. Newton, the Black Panther Party, all of that was going on. How did you feel about that? Were you ever a part of any of that?

	LF:	No. They were all striving for things they believed in, and they all wanted to go about them—Newton was—okay. Martin was over here for peace and—Malcolm was over here for however you get it, take it. And Newton was basically—he was rocking back and forth to whatever suits his fancy at different times. He wanted both what Martin wanted and what Malcolm wanted, and sometimes he felt peaceful about it and sometimes he felt violent about it, so—. And so did basically most of us because of what we had gone through, what we lived daily, how we—just say for instance now, how they say the times are rough and how people are losing houses and homes and jobs; but we’ve lived there all our lives. They don’t understand that. They don’t understand how we can eat steaks and potatoes and be happy with a big smile on our face and live in a hut. You can see all the stars through the roof and walls and they don’t understand that because they’ve always had and they felt they had to do what Mr. Charlie did down the street, so—. They never could understand how we lived and what we’ve been able to do what we do with what they paid us, and they still don’t understand it because I hear it all the time. Even when I got my truck, my boss said, “That’s a Silverado. It’s pretty expensive, ain’t it?” “In other words, you’re saying Black





folks can’t have Silverados, huh?” So—and he didn’t say anything else. And they still feel that way. Just like at one time they never allowed us to drink Coca Cola’s. You didn’t know that, huh?

	JF:	I didn’t.



	LF:	Better not be caught with a coke. Who? White man? Please. That’s a White man drink, they say. And West Palm Beach was one of the worst places that a Black man could ever come to live. This place, West Palm Beach. They took your homes here. And they burned the bridge down. This history. This common knowledge. Just like my name is Flagler. We worked for a year and a half right there in front of the Flagler Museum and I never went in there. Never been in there. So—He didn’t interest me. Just didn’t interest me. I think about it at times. I been here since [19]72, and I’ve never been there.

	JF:	That’s interesting. Were there some Black people who were either scared to stand up the way that—?

	LF:	Always. Always. As always—Fear is a—is a substantial motivator in most people even when it’s—when you’re dealing with your kids. You’re scared to say this and you’re scared to say that to your kids ’cause of how they might react. And when mom tell you not to mess with Jody, don’t talk to whoever and the things she tell you about whoever sort of halfway summarizes one life. Say for instance you, good example. The things that she—how she—how parents, this word I’ma use now—desecrate their kids’ lives by what they say to them, and they don’t even realize it. They don’t even realize it, but—they think in terms of they trying to protect them. They trying to show them what not to do, and every time you tell





her—How can you keep an ant out of the sugar? How can you keep a rat away from the cheese? The only way you keep a rat from the cheese is kill him. That’s the only way. That’s the only absolute way. If the cheese is somewhere— anywhere he might be able to get to it, he’ll cut through all kind of boxes to get at the cheese, at his—whatever he’s after. Screen wire, soft metal, plastic—he’ll cut through it to get to it. But moms can’t see that about their kids. My mom, your mom, anybody mom. The things my mom had told me, but—White folks is a good example, is a very—So, what have you learned about them? Anything at all? Are they good folks? Are they decent?

	JF:	I’ve learned something from UF. I know that much. My first semester there, I got a .6 GPA. That’s pretty low. And I went to the guidance counselor, and he told me that maybe UF isn’t for me and UF isn’t for everybody and maybe I could try a junior college or community college and work my way back to a university.

	LF:	That’s them.



	JF:	But it’s about three years later, and I’m getting ready to graduate, so I believe that the stubbornness and the determination and all that—I think it trickles down the family tree.

	LF:	Yes. Yes. We have a multiplicity of talents that we really don’t know we have. We have a—a plethora of different things in us that we don’t know that’s there and— but you don’t know it until certain situations arise, certain things knock at the door. And so, like mother said about me—Mother said I was the best of her sons. I was the best person you ever want to talk to or—talk to until you twist his feathers, and I realize. I know this now. She say when you twist his feathers, he





is the meanest nigga you ever want to see. And so I learned that, and I have told people that at times, and so I don’t socialize a lot with some people that I see at times and I meet, run into at times and I say hi and bye and leave it alone.

Because I know me. I’m not gonna take the mess that they shovel out. Just like me and my wife, you and your mama—when I get tired, I just get in the truck and leave. I just walk off and leave her. I don’t want to hear it. Bye. And she can’t understand that.

	JF:	I do that, too.



	LF:	And just like she came over here one day to talk to me and she was so—I’m not gonna say mean and nasty. She was just doggish. I just laid her on the line and that was that. Told her point blank if that ain’t what you expect, what you like— Bye! Go! Told her before, I said I love you. Yes, I love you dearly, but I ain’t got to do with you. I can do you like I do the light pole, like that tree out there. I love you. I’m gonna keep up with where you at, find out how you’re doing, and it ain’t got to be from you. She know I’ve always done this. I don’t have to talk to you.

What did you say?



	JF:	She said—she told me about that. I think she was younger.



	LF:	I’ve always known where she was and who she was seeing and two or three niggas wanted to get with her, and they wouldn’t because of me. And they find out, “Lewis her daddy? Lew—? Uh-uh.” And so—And then one day she came over and she said something, told me she wish I was dead. I was fixing to walk off. She asked me something. I don’t know what I answered to her, but she said I had turned around and [inaudible 24:54] and she said, “I wish you were dead.”





And I hit her so quick, boy, I scared me. She asked me where did that come from, a day or two later, “Where did that—?” I say, baby, when you dealing with people, and people can be good and people can be snakes at times and reactions sometimes it’s—it’s astounding. They can hurt you quickly and they don’t even realize it and so, she’s—she is sweet and evil. And I am triply so. So, I don’t deal with—I don’t socialize with a lot of people. I don’t let a lot of people in my domain, simple as that. And—what else do I need to answer?

	JF:	I have about two more questions. One is—I wanted to ask you about, I think your mother, my great-grandmother? That’s who my mom calls “Mother,” right? What type of person was she? Because my mom said that out of all of her first cousins, mother told my mom that she was her favorite, and she loved her so much and that if she was here, she would have loved me to death.

	LF:	She would. Her name was Carrie Mae Flagler, my mom. She was extremely outspoken. She was extremely heavy-handed. And when you didn’t carry out her instructions, there was a price to pay. As the Bible say, a recompense. She was a sweet woman, but she was a woman. She was the one that told me that—I asked her about—matter fact, her and your granddaddy, her real father married about—Hey that’s something I just now thought about! Oh my god. It was—she wasn’t married to Marion when she got me, when she made that one night or two night excursion. I just now—that’s the first time I ever thought about that like that. I remember cleaning up one evening, helping cleaning up the house, and some old papers that was in the bottom of a Chester drawer, and there was a marriage license in there. [19]42, around June/July of [19]42. I looked at it and I, Hey,





mother, what is this? A marriage license in [19]42? And she say, “Oh, boy!” She walked over: “You sure you looking at what you looking at?” And she walked over and she made sure what it was before she snatched it out my hand and tore it up. And went straight—got a match. So, yep, she was a lot of things that you’re gonna do, a lot of things that you’re gonna do because of what your momma said to you, how your mom said to you. I can remember some things that you used to say about yourself that your momma told you and everybody was astound, extremely astound at how and why you said that particular thing.

	JF:	What type of stuff did I used to say?



	LF:	This can’t go in there. It can’t go in there. I’ll tell you about that later. I’ll tell you about that later. That can’t go in there.

	JF:	Okay.



	LF:	But anyway, it was—it’s been a wonderful life. I love her. She told me that regardless of how you live your life—say don’t discard women and men because of what they do in their lives. See, sometimes, Mr. Need More prevails, Mr. Need More sticks his head up too far and you have to satisfy him and by satisfy him, you have to do certain things that you don’t normally do. And then there are the other times you just do things out of want or a need to do them or try this or try that. She said basically it’s about how you—what you see and think about a new pair of pants, a new dress in the store window. When you see a new man, a new woman, depending on how they appeal to you, what’s on your head at that particular time—how you address the issue, so we all got our own ideas. We all have our own sovereignty about living our lives. No matter what mom say do or





don’t do, you’re gonna still search out what you want to do. You’re gonna still find things that—certain things gonna gravitate toward what you like. So—

	JF:	Okay. So, my last question would be about President Obama. How you felt about his election and his presidency now at this point.

	LF:	I think it’s great. I’m extremely pleased at his election, his presidency. But the White folks, the White folks, they blaming him for everything. They have never blamed a president like they blame him, but I can’t understand why are they crying about Obama because they don’t understand that the Black folks didn’t put him there! They don’t understand that! They still think that we voted—got together and we—no matter if all of us get together and vote for Obama, we can’t get him there. ‘Cause it’s twice, three times more of them than it is us. They put him there! They nominated him! He’s doing the things that they want to do! But— How often did the ex-president talked about going over Afghanistan and take off what’s-his-name? That’s all I’ma say. And now that the Black president—they done got together and did it, he gave the order to go do it, they could’ve gotten him long time ago. They could’ve—the government is the best killers in the world, the best thieves in the world. Talking about break-in artists, and all that—they do that! They practice these things! They bless hackers, they hire them. Guys that hack—get into anything—those are the people that they want working for them.

That’s right. That’s right. And so, all the things that Obama does is what they’re expecting of him, and because he got this—Some of the things that he’s done, he talked about with his staff and they said, Okay. And he also talked about these things with the Congress and they okay’ed it, but now that he’s done it, like





the Obama loans and the Obama stimulus, and the Obama this, all of this they knock. He can’t say how people gonna use money. When he especially said that they—about bonuses and he come up with his big company and the Attorney General say they knew nothing about it, what can the President do? He’s been great. All them presidents—And that shows you, too, how they still feel about us. They’ve got rid of one guy that talked to the President nasty. What did they call it? Censored? Is that what they call it? That what the White folks call it?

	JF:	Something like that.



	LF:	That’s what the White folks call it, but they wouldn’t censor this next guy. They done did one, he did something or said something to the President and they censor him, and now there’s another guy that do something and they just let it— pat him on the fist. Say, Don’t do it so loud next time, okay? But White folks is White folks. They think like all the rest of us—they think they are all of that and a bag of chips. But they are prejudice—not all of them! And sometime it’s taught in the home. Sometime it’s taught in the school, in the streets, but—and when their kids have it, moms and dad know it. They say, Where did he get that from? They know how they feel! But they can see it because they display it. All down their childhood, life, but there are Black folks that’s just as prejudice as White folks, just as nasty and stink as White folks, in the same respect. So, what you want to say? What you want to call it? A mutual understanding between racists? What does the Bible say? The Bible say you will always have the poor. It ain’t talking about in money. You can be poor in your mind, your back, your walk, but there are poor people all over the world. They are very extremely poor people in the





White House, in the Senate, in the Congress. That’s all they can talk about. They go against him simply because he’s Black. They don’t understand how he—they can’t ruffle his feathers. They piss him off. They say things for a reaction and he—he goes down another avenue without a fluffle or without a ruffle and they don’t understand this. But you see White folks don’t understand that we’ve been under the assault all our lives. We’ve been under the hammer from day one. And the hammer is them. They have dictated to us how we are to live, how and where we are to go and do. You are to not do this. We just got—and it’s—and it’s still a hindrance. They still don’t want us to sit in—You got a hundred thousand dollars in your pocket. You go buy a first class box in the opera, and see how they look at you. You got out, buy a first class box at one of the big baseball games or football games and see how they look at you. But your money is not like theirs.

It’s still green. It still buys the same thing, but since you—since a darkie—okay. They don’t never look at this. They don’t—they don’t ever look at it the way we look at it. It’s always them against us or them dictating to us about how to do and what to do, but they can’t ever see. There is a few that understand this thing.

There are people on both sides that understand it clearly, but they can’t do because they are of the minority. And they don’t want the—their feathers being ruffled. They don’t want their lives being detoured, so they leave things alone. And same thing over here. What about you? What things in college that you can’t do, that if you do you’ll get your feathers ruffled?

	JF:	Get my feathers ruffled in college? Things that I want to do, but can’t do?





	LF:	Anything you ever say to me is between me and you. Just remember that.



Anything you ever say to me is between me and you. You ain’t never got nobody, nobody, not even Pat. Not even—when I talk to some people, I don’t take my shadow. You ever noticed that?

	JF:	I know something I want to do. I’m going to try to do it, is bring it to the attention of the whole university how they have these dedication and statues of White people all over campus. Oh, Such and such did this, like George Smathers. They have a—the Smathers library. But he was a racist, and he was against integration. Criser, I’m not sure about him, but he has Criser Hall. And there’s people all over and they just have these huge heads all over, and they have a couple of posters of Black people who accomplished some things. But they’re in Ustler Hall at the top where it’s hardly anybody ever there in the back wall, and that’s where they are.

	LF:	That’s what they do. JF:	That’s where they are.

	LF:	The things that they consider—the Smurfs. What are those other people that’s on TV, that commercial, the guy that—well anyway—They just permit things that’s— that’s, you might say, not right because they always—A lot of people, intelligent people, educated people are the stupidest people in the world most of the time.

And they tend to lean on themselves, think they are what it is or where it’s at. They don’t think, at any time, that there’s a God that wakes them up. They think, feel and know that they themselves woke themselves up each and every morning. Nine and nine tenths, you hear that? Nine and nine tenths of intelligent





people think they are the apple. They are the apple. Black, White, blue, green or yellow, doesn’t make any difference. I’ll throw them all in a basket.

	JF:	I try not to be like that.



	LF:	It’s how you—how you remember who—whose you are. And nobody wants to think that they were put here to worship somebody that they can’t see or do something to and for somebody or something that they can never see, can never talk to. But—and He’ll talk to you just like me and you talking here. Sometimes He’ll be so, so subtle. Sometimes He’ll talk to you like you one of the boys under the tree, and sometimes He’ll say things to you and it’ll make the hair stand up on your head, but you’ll get your act together. Sometimes He’s—sometimes He’s so direct and so—Sometime you can hear Him in that little voice that’s just as clear as the sun is shining and sometimes it’s just there. Sometimes you can turn your head, and it’s just there. You just—And sometime you have to just—sometime, when it’s—when He speak to you, and you can hear Him, it’s clear of what to do and how to do it, where it come from. But sometimes you can turn your head and just—boom! And you’ll sort of—you’ll sort of wonder about it, but you know it’s there and you know where it come from.

	JF:	I have—I know I said that was my last question, but I got one final question. LF:	No problem. No problem. Carry on.

	JF:	About my generation ‘cause I look at my generation and see the huge difference between yours and mine and I feel like most of my generation or a lot of us—we don’t really understand that there’s still racism going on, and I feel like a lot of them act crazy, and now it’s no need for White people to do the same things they





did like the KKK, because you got Black people killing Black people over shoes and girls and boys and all of this stuff, and we just do the same thing and don’t feel any need for change.

	LF:	Well, about killing each other—Why do you think the White men allow the guns down in Blacks—sold here? They don’t know we don’t make guns. They know we don’t draw heroin and cocaine and marijuana to the great extent. They know who’s bringing it in town. And as far as racism—In today’s generation, you guys are considered the—a damned, a cursed generation. Why is it that way?

Because of your intellect, how knowledge—knowledgeable you are about worldly things, the things that gonna pass away, things that can’t do nothing for you, but right now basically—not too much down the line, depending on how you work at them. And how—okay, okay. Just you for instance, He says, how your mom took you to church, how your mom told you about God and what your stance is, what your belief about life—men, women, lifestyle today. What you feel, what you think, what you do or don’t do. And it’s all basically based on what mom said, how you guys—or what mom didn’t say, how her anger nurtured and cultivated you, but He says, and it will dawn on you one day, too, it won’t be until one day when you find yourself in a—in a certain situation that—and you’ll say, Damn!

She’s the smartest thing in the world. Some days she’s the stupidest person you ever want to lay eyes on. Sometimes you don’t want to see her, but one day, all the things, all the things that she’s said—you—I ain’t gonna say all the things.

Some or maybe most of things that you will say that, She told me. She said that. She said that. You’ll find yourself saying that. You’ll find yourself saying that. And





her—that’s the one I’m talking about right there—She’s the smartest thing in the world at times. Other times she’s the dumbest. Sometimes she’s the most stupidest. Sometimes, she’s the most meanest. She’ll be all of those things at times, but then even that—One day, when you wake up and you do something and something come out, Dog, she said that! She told me that! You know? That’s all of us. That’s all of us! But because of—because of who we are, we think we’re all of that and a bag of chips. You, me, him, she and they, too. So—

	JF:	All right. Well, I didn’t tell you in the beginning but you’ll get a copy of the interview.

	LF:	Good. Great.



	JF:	And they said make sure you thank your interviewee for the time that they spent, so thank you, Grandpa. I appreciate it.

	LF:	You’re welcome. Just remember, you’re damned because you don’t remember who you are. No, I retract that. I refrain that, refrain, refrain. You’re damned simply because and truly because you forget whose you are. And it ain’t her.

Ain’t got nothing to do with her. Not a dip. Ain’t got a dip to do about me or your grandma or nobody else. Ain’t got a dip.

	JF:	Okay. Well, any other remarks or comments? LF:	No other questions?

	JF:	Nope. That’s it.



	LF:	Don’t volunteer too much. You know that already, so— [End of Interview]





	Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, April 11, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019