AAHP 265; Avery; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 265 Byllye Avery

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Deidre Houchen on May 5, 2012 54 minutes | 27 pages

















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 265

Interviewee: Byllye Avery, Wesley Avery Interviewer: Deidre Houchen

Date: May 5, 2012



	H:	Today is May 5– BA:	Cinco de Mayo.

	H:	That’s right. I’m Deidre Houchen. Can we all introduce ourselves for the tape so we know who’s here?

	BA:	I’m Byllye Avery.



	WA:	I’m not here.



	H:	That’s Wesley. Great. In my short experience doing—Avery—doing interviews Ms. Byllye, the first question I always ask is where were you born. Can we start there?

	BA:	Sure. I was born in a small town called Waynesville, Georgia. I was born at home. I had a midwifery attended birth, and she was my cousin, Ella, who was the midwife.

	H:	What year were you born? BA:	1937. October 20, 1937.

	H:	Okay. Did you know that midwife? BA:	Uh-huh.

	H:	You did?



	BA:	I grew up knowing her, she was a cousin—she was a relative. But I didn’t find out that she was the midwife until many, many years later. I always felt she had a special thing for me, and I just thought it was because I was cute. [Laughter] And when I started writing my memoir, I started doing something around birthing and I





asked my mother, “Who was the midwife?” And she said, “Cousin Ella.” So that was really special.

	H:	And then what brought you from there to Gainesville? Is that where you came next?

	BA:	No, I grew up in DeLand, Florida. And went to high school. Then I left DeLand, and when I left DeLand, my mother moved to Jacksonville, Florida, she remarried. My father died my junior year in high school, and my mother moved to Jacksonville and remarried. And I went to Talladega College in Talladega, Alabama. That’s where I met the children’s father. I have two children: Wesley and Sonya. I met him at Talladega. Met him the first day I was there. And I didn’t date him for that whole year, he was very annoying. He was always bothering me, and I gave him a hard time. I played real hard to get. I didn’t know I was playing hard to get, I just didn’t want to be bothered with him. And someone told me not too long ago that’s always a sign, you know? So he and I dated and got married and lived in Jacksonville for about ten years, which we hated living there every single day. I did not like Jacksonville at all.

	H:	Neither of you did?



	BA:	No we don’t. I still don’t.



	H:	Why? What is it about Jacksonville?



	BA:	We didn’t like the way it smelled. It just wasn’t a, I don’t know. We just didn’t like it.

	H:	It just wasn’t for you.





	BA:	No it wasn’t for us. And so our escape from Jacksonville was when we got to come to the University of Florida. And the way I got here is that I was teaching special education. I got a fellowship from the University of Florida to work to get my Master’s. And that’s how I got down here. And so Wesley said, “Girl, I never found out how White people could go to college and be married.” Because we were having a hard time being married and working, and we couldn’t imagine going to school and being married. So I said, “I’m going to go down there and figure out how they do it.” And so that was my mission. I came down—I stayed over in northeast Gainesville with family. They charged me $25 a month, room. And I got my Master’s and the next thing you knew we were living in Corry Village. Wesley, I found out about ways that he could get a fellowship. So he got a fellowship in educational research, and that’s what he was doing. And the rest is history. That’s how we got here.

	H:	When you first moved to Gainesville, what part of town were you renting that room in?

	BA:	You mean when I was down here by myself? Over in the northeast side— WA:	Lincoln Estates.

	BA:	Lincoln Estates, right. That’s what it was.



	WA:	Let me tell you a little story. Before we completely transitioned out here, they used to come down—y’all heard of Animar? They used to come down here, a couple that lived right back here in Smokey Bear Park, who were [inaudible 5:35]. We’d come down here for meetings, you know, to get products and stuff like that.





Come to find out, after we would leave, these people would have their house egged, tomatoed every night. Because a Black man came down here.

	H:	Wow.



	WA:	Fast forward to now, I think that neighborhood is all Black. Just about, just about.



It’s just how much Gainesville has changed.



	H:	Absolutely. That’s one of the things I was about to ask you about was what was your early school experiences like? So you said you were living in DeLand for elementary and middle school?

	BA:	And high school. There’s no such thing as middle school. H:	Ah. [Laughter] Tells you when I was born.

	BA:	It was elementary and there was high school. [Laughter] H:	What was your elementary and high school like?

	BA:	Well we went to segregated schools. Our books came from—our school name was Yukon High School, and all our books came from DeLand High School. They’d make the White kids use them before we did. And sometimes the pages would be torn out and all kinds of stuff like that. But you know in the midst of all of that, in some ways, we certainly didn’t have the higher illiteracy rates that we seem to have now. Our teachers cared about us, and we got our lesson. And we behaved. And they knew how to be with us. And this was before telephones and all that, and if you misbehaved in school, no one questioned the teacher—your butt got whipped when you got home because you acted out. And we didn’t have, we might have had one child who was kind of slow in the class, but you know how you have kids who can’t read and all that? That didn’t happen. That just





wasn’t a part of our experience. So we got the best education that you can get in that kind of situation. However, it was grossly inadequate. But it still was the best you could get.

H:   How did you know your teachers cared about you?



	BA:	Oh, because they took time with us. They made sure we understood what we were doing. And they did it with love. You know when you’re being pushed to the side. Or when you’re being cared about. And these people—my mother is a teacher—and so these people were my mother’s friends, and teachers, and doctors, and lawyers in the Black community were very high esteemed in terms of their lives so. Sometimes I look back at it, a certain amount of glorified segregation. I’m just glorifying a part of it where people cared about each other, and what they touched, and networked, and a certain kind of closeness that you don’t see now.

	H:	So you came back to UF, lived in Corry Village, your husband passes—



	BA:	Right, he passed away. And so we moved over to Granada apartments, no we moved to Camelot. We moved to Camelot and we lived there for two or three years. And then we moved to Granada. While I was at Camelot I became—well when Wesley died, I had just started working at Shands in the department of psychiatry. We had a children’s unit called the Children’s Mental Health Unit. And we dealt with kids who are autistic and had other emotional problems. And I was the head teacher, I ran the unit. So those were the early days of dealing with childhood autism that we were involved in. But more importantly, the [19]70s were a time of really big change in the country. And our unit was headed up by a





Quaker named Paul Adams. And he really propelled us into the future and started thinking about all kinds of things like Eastern religions. And I remember first presentation that I did on reproductive choice, he gave me and Judy Levy an assignment to do a didactic lecture on what was happening with women’s health around reproduction. And this was before Roe v. Wade. So we kind of became known as women—me, Judy, and Margaret who wasn’t there last night—kind of became known as women who could help other women get abortions. And so we really didn’t know how to do it, we were only talking. But when the women started coming to us, we figured out we had to figure out how to do this. And there was a group called Clergy Consultation which was a group of Catholic priests who helped women get one—once she get to New York—get abortions. And so I had the privilege of meeting some of those priests several years ago, and that was such a delight. But anyway, Clergy Consultation had a number. We’d give women a telephone number, they would call Clergy Consultation, they would then tell them where to go to get a safe, legal abortion. So it worked for White women who had money and could get to New York, but when Black women came and asked for the phone number, and she’d say, “I don’t need no phone number, I don’t know nobody in New York, and I don’t have any money to get to New York.” And so we realized that wasn’t really access, you know. And then after abortion became legal, we were literally taking women to Jacksonville every weekend to get abortions, and going back for your post-op and all of that. And knew that there was a need for abortion services in Gainesville. And so four of us





came together, and in 1974 we opened up the Gainesville Women’s Health Clinic: first trimester abortion clinic with a woman GYN clinic.

	H:	What made you go from working at Shands to doing that on your own?



	BA:	Well, I was really excited by it. It was exhilarating work. It was wonderful work. The women’s health movement starting energy was really high. Women all over the country were doing things, and opening up facilities and doing stuff. And we had this idea that we wanted to do an abortion clinic and we wanted to do a birth facility. Right from the very beginning, we knew we wanted to do all of that. And so things started changing at Shands. Paul left, and they didn’t like our whole division because it was very radical, and people were chanting and smoking pot and doing every single thing in the world, I mean we were like way out, we were out there. And the University did not like that so they hired a psychiatrist who became the head of the unit. And he started systematically started getting rid of everybody. And then Judy went up for tenure, and she passed the division, and at the department level, they denied her tenure because we opened up that clinic. See the doctors did not want uppity women opening up facilities. And so we was denied tenure. We always knew it was because of Gainesville Women’s Health Clinic. But we were all pissed about that. It wasn’t a huge decision. I figured we would make it, and we did. Sort of like Sister Mary stepping out for her job. You know, that’s what you have to do sometimes. The only thing I regret now is that I didn’t keep my retirement plan. Now that I’m seventy-four years old. So hold on to your retirement, no matter what you do. Whatever you have in there,





let it stay in there. You will appreciate it when you get older. Idealism is one thing, money works.

	H:	So which departments did you get degrees in? You said you got a master’s degree.

	BA:	In education. Special education.



	H:	Do you remember what year was that when you were there? BA:	I came here in—I finished in [19]69.

	H:	Okay. My grandmother was also getting her master’s degree in special education right around then.

	BA:	What was your grandmother’s name?



	H:	Her name was Louise Farney. Her family’s name was Sugarmill [inaudible 16:06].

	BA:	No she wasn’t in our group.



	H:	Yeah, she might have been a little earlier. She’d been in and out of UF. She was a principal at a school—I think she actually came back to get her PhD. She was a principal at a school in [19]64. She walked out when the teachers walked out.

	BA:	That was before I got here.



H:  Yeah, there was a state-wide teacher walkout in 1964, and she was a principal and she walked out with the teachers. She lost her job and couldn’t get it back, and so she went to UF to get—

BA:  To go to school, that’s what you do. Uh-huh.



	H:	What was UF like? You were mentioning that that was a time they were trying to get Black students in when you guys came. Tell us about that.





	BA:	I think we were among about thirty students who were here. Among 30,000 White students. It was a little—it was a bit intimidating. Understanding the culture, and when people didn’t speak to you, you know? I grew up in a community where people speak to you, and people didn’t speak to you and all. But what I must say what happened was that in our little group, there were like five or six White women who we all bonded together and I became a part of that group, and that’s where we all learned how to be. And I was just amazed at some of the things that they had apartments, and they had money. They had like, I think credit cards had just started coming out. They had credit cards. I was amazed at the resources that these women had, you know, compared to what I had. It was unbelievable and it was—and I always thought we were doing pretty good. Until I found out there’s another pretty good, you know what I’m saying?

Whoa. So that was pretty nice, but I had a good experience, it ended up being a very good experience. You know, I was shocked when the first class I attended was in a big auditorium with about three hundred people. And I called my mother and I said, [inaudible 18:50]. ‘Cause I thought it was just so inferior because I went to a small school. Most of my college, there was seven or eight people in my classes. And we had one big class with forty students that we all detested that class, we were constantly complaining to administration that we did not like that. But it was really rewarding to me. Fast forward many years from when [inaudible 19:18] was the dean at Swathmore and the average size classes at Swathmore was seventy or eighty. Yes, that’s the way you do education. You don’t do these big auditoriums. And I was used to personal attention. You don’t





have anywhere to hide. With three hundred people you don’t even have to go. So that part I didn’t like, but over in the School of Education, especially in special ed, that’s where we had the smaller classes and I was able to feel some of that bonding that I need. I need personal connections in order to learn effectively and all that kind of thing.

H:  So you and your husband moved to Gainesville, you moved on campus. How did you start developing the relationships in the community that were going to end up being the Women’s Health Center?

	BA:	Well, I started working at Shands in September, and he died in November. So after his death, when I went through—I had a 10 year mourning period actually— but right after his death—before he died, he was a ferocious reader. He was reading one particular book, and he’d say, “Byllye, I want you to read this book.” And he and I would have a little back and forth because he loved to read all the time, and I needed him to help me with the children, there was clothes to be washed, they need to be taken care of, so sometimes when he’d want me to read things, to spite him, I wouldn’t read them. So he had been dead I guess not quite a year. And I say, “Let me see about this one book he talked about.” It was Betty Friedan’s Feminine Mystique. That was what he wanted me to read. And I read that book, and it really started to change my whole life around. The second wave of feminism was happening here in Gainesville. Gainesville now was just developing. Paul was pushing us around this productive health stuff, and that’s how I became very connected to doing stuff. But at this time, I wasn’t really connected to Black people in Gainesville ‘cause I was just on the university





campus, and it can just occupy your whole life, and you not really have that sense. After we opened the center, the Gainesville Women’s Health Center, we made special efforts to go out and meet people, get involved in folks that we hire, we work through them. But, what I learned is that Black women and their husbands came to the Center—to Gainesville Women’s Health Center for their abortion services—but they were not coming for the well woman GYN services.

Really it all became an alternative for the students at the university. They would much rather come down there because we had all the education, it was a cool place to come, and everything. But we were not getting those Black women in that I wanted to get in except for the crisis services. And so that was a real lesson. Sort of a disappointment, but also very instructive as to how we take care of ourselves, and what we think is important. And how we don’t have the luxury sometimes of even doing the preventive stuff. That we’re so busy treading underwater trying to keep our lips above water, that we bypass the prevention and end up doing most of the crisis. So that was very instructive, but it really propelled me to understand why. It put me on a quest. Then when we got the birthplace, we opened birthplace in [19]78. And when we got the birthplace, we found out that a lot of Black women couldn’t come because we only charged fifteen hundred dollars for a birth, and the hospital were charging three thousand. But the women didn’t have the cash money. They had insurance like they had a way to pay for it. So a lot of woman couldn’t come, even though they would have wanted to have a childbirth, they couldn’t afford to even pay the fifteen hundred dollars. And so that became a barrier. However we did several many families





who came, we had many families who came. And believe me, the ones who came, I spent a lot of time and a lot of energy talking with them, and helping them understand the whole birthing process, and learning that what works for White women doesn’t necessarily work for Black women, and that the approach has to be different. Some of the elements are the same, but a lot of the approaches need to be different. And so I worked at the birthing center, I assisted in probably a hundred births. It was Sam, who was there last night, it was so good to see her, and it was just a wonderful experience. But I knew that I needed to do work with Black women. That I’d done a lot of work with my White sisters, and it was time for me to take what I’d learned and see if I could apply it to the lives of Black women. And that’s when I moved to Atlanta in [19]81 and started the Black Women’s Health Project.

	H:	But you were at some point here teaching Black young girls at P.K. Yonge.



	BA:	Oh yeah, while I was here. Before Sonya got her period, I started preparing her for her to have information. So I came up with this way of things I wanted to do, so I ended up creating a workshop. And so I asked the teachers at P.K. if I could try a workshop with the students. And so I did. I did the workshop with the kids, and I did it with boys and girls, and talked to them about menstruation, and they were squirming all over the place, you know the way they are. But nevertheless, I knew they were hearing me. And that workshop really ended up being a film.

Yes, it’s a film, and it’s called On becoming a woman.



	H:	Becoming a Woman?





	BA:	On becoming a woman: mothers & daughters talking together. And it’s available through Women [inaudible 26:34]. And it’s not a video, it’s a film. We purposely made it to be a film because we wanted it to last forever, and it was the first Black film done talking about menstruation between mothers and daughters. And the original copy in all this archiving the Black film library at the University of Indiana and so we were very intentional with that. That’s good.

	H:	Who’s we?



	BA:	We the Black Women’s Health Project.



	H:	So this was when you were out of Atlanta?



	BA:	I used what I learned in Gainesville, and when I got established in Atlanta, we started doing work, and I started doing the menstruation stuff there and found out that the Black women—I changed it all up from what I learned. Some was the same, but then Sonya had a birthday. When Sonya got her period, we had a big birthday party for her and I had a big cake. I went to Albertson’s and got this big cake that said “Happy Birthday” and “Happy Menstruation,” I had it there and we were singing to her. And my children.

	H:	That’s right. As we were walking into the restaurant today, you said that Gainesville is where you had your political awakening? Is that what this is around?

	BA:	Oh yeah, well not this birthday, but abortion, reproductive health, women’s health, politics, what’s happening in the world, and the way you look at the world. And I see so much of the way I see the world right through this man right here.

He is—I mean, he’s a political animal. He is constantly—he was telling me last





night about how when Rick Scott got elected he couldn’t even go to sleep. [Laughter]

	WA:	[inaudible 28:52] It’s a small community. H:	It was close.

	WA:	[inaudible 29:00]



	BA:	Yeah, so I became alive here. I’ll always be grateful because— WA:	[inaudible 29:29]

	BA:	That’s what he says, “We don’t talk politics.” I say, “Well what are you supposed to say when people say we don’t talk politics?”

	WA:	[inaudible 29:48]



	BA:	We say we just can’t do it because we gotta live next door to them. You know, you’re not gonna move, so you have to know how to be. His wife doesn’t like to talk politics. She goes crazy. So he’s on the phone with me and she’s all, “Hey stop that,” you know.

	H:	How long were you in Atlanta?



	BA:	About fifteen years. Fifteen, sixteen years.



	H:	Can you tell me more about Black Women’s—



	BA:	Oh it was wonderful. Moving to Atlanta was just incredible. H:	So what year was that?

	BA:	1981.



	H:	Okay.



	BA:	And when I moved to Atlanta, I knew I had to organize Black Women’s Health Project, and it’s like I told Terry, I had to move to Atlanta in order to get a critical





mass of women to sit down and talk to me. The women here were scared of me. And I didn’t really know exactly why. It might have been because I was a lesbian, it might have been because I was always talking politics, it might have been because we opened the abortion clinic, it might have been, they was like it might have been, might have been, might have been. All I know is that I couldn’t get any traction. And I knew it was time for me to leave. And when I got to Atlanta— first of all, Atlanta is the chocolate city. And everybody there meant business.

From the mayor right on down to—I was amazed. I would go to see just to give me a name, and I’d go down there and there’d be a Black person. And they’d give me more names and it was just incredible. And they became very supportive of us, and in 1983, we held the first National Conference on Black Women’s Health Issues. We thought we’d have three to four hundred women come. We had over two thousand who came from all over the country as well as Canada.

So that started it. We knew that we had—I mean we had seven or eight buses that pulled in with women. Women could pay twenty five dollars in New York City and get on a bus and come to Atlanta to the conference. There were people organizing everywhere. And we sent out our brochures on white paper. We would get back registration forms on blue paper, on pink paper, on orange paper. I would go to the post office—we got a post office box. I would go to the post office, and there would be like five or six envelopes. I opened up an envelope, and there would be twenty registrations in one envelope. Fifty in this one. So it was really quite wonderful. That conference was—there are so many women who will tell you it changed their lives. It was like the first time we as Black





women came together to talk about the reality of our lives. We talked about things we had never talked about before. We included all of who we are. We had workshops—we didn’t call it gay or whatever. We called it alternative lifestyles.

Well, you know, you have to do what people are. And Black people are very homophobic. And they were also anti-feminist. But here we were feminist, so instead of using the word feminism, we used empowerment. And so I remember one general session was on the process of empowerment, and Beverly Smith— who her twin sister Barbara from Boston was a well-known Black feminist—she came out to the audience during her talk. And I remember this woman say, “Why you want to call yourself a lesbum?” She couldn’t even say the word. “Why you want to call yourself a lesbum?” But for many women, that was the first contact with the whole idea of that. We had workshops—I think we had like 80 workshops and people—it was just magical. I invited Audre Lorde because when Audre Lorde came to the University of Florida to speak—

	H:	We didn’t know that.



	BA:	Oh she spoke here. She spoke over at the church. You know where the Memorial bookstore used to be on the corner, there was a church right there? And she came to speak. And I was sick with the flu, but I felt like if I didn’t go to hear her, there would not be another Black woman in the room. So I went and I sat on the very last row, in the back of the room so that she would have at least one Black woman hearing her. And then so fast forward, I invited her to come—I wanted her to do what Beverly Smith did. And I wrote her, and I said, “You don’t know me.” I introduced myself and I said, “When you came to the University of





Florida, I came and I sat in the back row.” And I said, “The reason I sat there is because I had the flu. And the reason I didn’t come talk to you is because I was recovering from the flu.” And she said, “I remember you. And now with all the public speaking I do, of course I remember one Black woman who comes in a room of White women, and she’s the only one in the room.” So she remembered me, and actually she included me in one of her parties. And she couldn’t come during that time, but she and I became friends and knew each just from that one act. Just from that one act.

	H:	I think that’s amazing that you and Audre were together. Did you identify as a lesbian when you lived in Gainesville?

	BA:	Did I what?



	H:	Did you identify as a lesbian when you lived in Gainesville? BA:	Uh-huh, pretty much, yeah.

	H:	Were you connected with any of the, sort of, gay and lesbian groups around here?

	BA:	You’re assuming there were gay and lesbian groups, right? H:	Well there was the Gay Liberation Front.

	BA:	I didn’t do much of them, no. But I had my own group. I mean we had each other, we had ourselves. There was a whole bunch of lesbians. There were tons of lesbians here. But I wasn’t officially affiliated with any group. ‘Cause I was doing my own thing. I was doing my Women’s Health thing. And there were tons of lesbians doing that so I didn’t have a need for—there wasn’t a whole lot of stuff happening.





	H:	There wasn’t—



	BA:	No, nothing like today.



	H:	What was it like at that first—I have a few questions about that first conference.



Why do you think women were there, and who were the women who were there? So was it people on the fringes of their own community, who were radical and activists?

	BA:	No not at all. They were just regular everyday women. There were women who we spoke to them because we were talking about—we talked a lot about birth disparities. And by this time, you have to know that I would have traveled around the country with a slideshow, talking about our health issues, talking about the way we needed to start taking care of ourselves. And our theme was “We’re Sick and Tired of Being Sick and Tired.” And so many people identified with that theme. And so they were just regular everyday people. Some were professionals, but most were not. They were just people.

	H:	What were some of the biggest health issues and concerns? BA:	Same ones we have now.

	H:	That’s what I thought.



	BA:	Yeah, nothing’s changed in that point. Infant mortality rate among Blacks was twice, the obesity was not quite the issue at that time that it is now. And it’s really frightening because of who’s obese. I mean you know, girls in the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth grade are just tons. I went to my fiftieth college reunion and we looked better than the graduating class. And I didn’t say that, one of our classmates said, “Byllye, look at them. We are in so much better shape than they





are. And we got our old age span on us.” And they were young, and they were beautiful. Their feet were falling all over their shoes, you know, and that’s frightening because these women still got to go through childbirthing years and they got many years to deal with all of the complications that come from obesity. We talked a lot. In the beginning days of the Black Women’s Health Project, we talked about our physical health issues, but what the women really needed to talk about was psychological distress that they’re living in. So they broke the silence and talked about incest, which was a very very serious, detrimental problem. And I hadn’t focused so much on incest because I’m fortunate to be one of the people who it did not happen to. So somehow we think that what is not our problem isn’t a problem for everybody else. But what I learned is that it’s a very big problem for Black women. You sit in a circle with twenty-five women, and you got like eighteen of them have been victims of sexual abuse. You got a good epidemic, and it still is a very damaging thing. Domestic violence was very very serious.

Women talked about it. I remember one woman who was the mother of nine children. So really, that’s what Black women needed to talk about, so we cried and talked about it, and broke that silence for many, almost ten years. That’s what we focused on, psychological well-being, because if your head is not right, the rest of your body is not going to function. And we had to figure out how to break down those barriers. So that’s what Terry was talking about. See Terry grew up in the projects. She and Sonya are good friends, my daughter. And so Terry has been through it all from day one, and she was saying she thought women knew stuff. And what she’s finding out, there’s things that she learned as





a eight, nine, and ten year old growing up that people don’t know now. And she’s sort of frustrated by that, ‘cause she knows a lot. She knows a lot, and she hung with me and Sonya. So in a lot of ways, Terry’s more interested in this than Sonya. She couldn’t believe Sonya wasn’t coming.

	WA:	Sonya said that last night actually. That Terry is more into what you’re doing than she is.

	H:	She lives here, your daughter?



	BA:	She lives in Jacksonville with my mother. My mother’s a hundred and three. H:	Oh my goodness, congratulations.

	BA:	Yeah, Sonya and her husband live with her.



	H:	That’s wonderful. That is wonderful and a blessing. That’s fantastic. So how do we get to MacArthur?

	BA:	I don’t know. Just doing, you know— H:	I mean how did you get from?—

	BA:	You don’t apply for it. You don’t apply for it.



	H:	So it was your MacArthur fellowship. Please tell me more about you getting that. BA:	Well, how I got it was the work I did. You just do your work. Now you don’t know how the nomination happens, you don’t know who does it, you don’t know

anything about that. That is not something that anybody knows. And so when I got it, it was in 1989. And people around me kept saying, “You gonna get a MacArthur, you gonna get a MacArthur.” And I kept saying, “Please, please, please.” But they’d given it to Billie Jean King—I mean Billie Jean Young, who was an organizer. She did the Southeast Rural Women’s Association. And then I





think that Marian Edelman got it the next year, and they were giving it to people who were Black women activists. So that’s why people kept saying to me, “You gonna get one.” But I never let that hang in my mind, you know? I mean you can’t sit around doing anything like that. So I remember one day, I had been out to lunch, and I came back and Sonya was working, or her daughter at the office, and I was trying to bounce, she says, “Momma, this man keeps calling you from the MacArthur Foundation.” But I didn’t think anything because we made an application to them for a grant, and I thought it was just a grant officer calling for one more piece of information. So I got this call from this man, he say, “I want to tell you that you won the MacArthur award.” I’m like oh my God. And so he said, “Are you sitting down?” And I said, “Well I’m on the floor.” And so he went on to tell me all about it. So I hung up the phone and I told the staff, “I just got the MacArthur award.” And so now the secretary said, “Well how much money did you get?” And I said, “Oh, I don’t know, I forgot to ask him.” So I had to call him back and ask him, “What was the money?” So I called back and got that whole thing, and that’s how it happened, and the rest is history.

	H:	The rest is history.



	BA:	So you just do what you know in your heart is right to do, and that’s not something you even think about. You don’t think about it because I know nothing about it. My only involvement is that sometimes when people have been nominated, they will write that they’re in women’s health. They will ask me, “Do you know this person and would you write a recommendation?” That’s the only





involvement. But who’s out there, you just don’t know. Which I think is kind of wonderful.

	H:	Yes, yes. I have one other question, I’m sorry if I’m—I didn’t study feminism or women’s studies at all. I’ve never taken a class, I’ve never even read an official book, I think, on feminism or women’s studies. But I noticed, there seems to be differences between—Black women who consider themselves feminists, and White women. So I’m asking, during that time when you were having those conversations, how did those differences play out, and what did that mean for you?

	BA:	Well, I was with a group of people who were really, really wonderful. A group of White women who were really wonderful. Who recognized that they didn’t see the world the way I did, but didn’t invalidate the way I saw the world. That’s one thing. When I talk about Margaret Terrance and Judy Levy, these were people who I struggled with. To understand things, to understand where they were coming from, and for them to understand where I was coming from. So I was really very very blessed. And then there would be other people I could read, like bell hooks—you should read bell hooks.

	H:	I do read bell hooks.



	BA:	Oh my God, you should read bell hooks, you should read Dr. Lorde, and see all of these women were writing—and I mean we would get books pumped out every month. There would be a new book, a new book. And people like Susan Brown Miller and Adrienne Rich, I read all of them, and they really had a very good analysis around class, which is what I found that we had a lot more





difference, a many times, than race. But nobody ever talks about class, which is what I think was wrong with last night. Class was not talked about. It is not just race. It’s also class. Class is huge. Class is huge, but the country is afraid of class. Because class unites more people than race, quite frankly, and class cuts across races. And that’s the union that, you know, they accused Obama of— called it class warfare with taxes. The ninety-nine percent and the one percent, calling that class war. ‘Cause if that ninety-nine percent came together in a meaningful way, it would change the nation ‘cause of this country, you know. So back to your point. So I was fortunate to be with people who I could struggle with honestly, and disagree with violently, and it still be okay. And we worked through things. We worked through things. And it’s a good lesson for me. ‘Cause we can have allies everywhere. And we can have enemies among us, and that was a very painful thing to have to witness. So that’s sort of how I got there.

	H:	You said that was a very painful thing for you to have to witness. What’s the lesson for me? What did you learn that I need know?

	BA:	The lesson is that you have to sometimes—this is the way I come to some things. Sometimes the Creator sends you gifts. And you might not like the packaging. But you don’t know what the gift is. And you will denounce the gift because you don’t like the package. And so you have to be able to look beyond the things you see, to look at what it is you can’t see. And sometimes that’s where it’s hidden. That’s the lesson I’ve learned. Like I’ve been hurt terribly by Black women. The very Black women that I have helped, the very Black women that I’m trying to help. And then I have been helped by White women, you know,





who I would have thought would have been against me. Some of them gave me money out of guilt, and others of them gave me money because they liked what I was doing. And at the end of the day, you need many things to make the work.

You need many things—you need people to be in your come and bring their gifts and giving in the way that they can. So that’s why you always have to look past the packaging. Because you can get really confused.

	H:	How would you have added the component of class to last night’s conversation and the way that it did not happen?

	BA:	Well we talked about allies—when you asked that question, which I was really glad you asked that question. And I really wish we that we had had Penny answer it instead of Camille?

	H:	Yes.



	BA:	Yeah, I think that that would have been a lot more palatable. And I think that class should have been raised in—when you talk about capitalism, you gotta talk about class, because capitalism affects class in some cases. However, all them poor people in India, you know, you look at the caste system, which is another whole thing. But I just would have raised it as something we need to look at, and because I think one of the things would say to White women is, “Instead of you working over in the Black community in the housing projects, work with poor Black folks, why don’t you go work with poor White folks?” Because they’re the ones who vote for Rick Scott and all of these people who they’re the ones who voting against their interest. They’re the ones who say, “Well I don’t have healthcare, but I think it’s wrong for Obama to say we have to have healthcare.”





Well, you know. Or, “I’m bankrupt because I couldn’t pay for so and so, but I don’t want this.” You see what I’m saying? A lot of damage is done by those types of people. So go work down your Color line. And when you work down your Color line, you then understand the whole world in a different way. And so that’s what I would say. How many of them are willing to go up into Appalachia to work with the poor people up there? How many of them really really go out to Archer?

	WA:	So you want them to go out there, I see it. I think it’s more effective. I see it every day, every day.

	BA:	You’re a UPS driver, you saw him in his outfit.



	WA:	Uh-huh. You’d be surprised, I mean I don’t live over here, I’m in the southwest section. You know I’ll drive down the road, you’ll think you’re twenty miles out in the woods. This one house I went to [inaudible 53:02]. There’s this wood across the street, 60th Street. I got the address, and I was like, “I’ve never seen this.” Working one Saturday, went through Bartram Woods, or whatever it is, and there’s a road in the back of the subdivision. And I mean I go back there like a half mile, winding down hidden trails, go to the house—old dilapidated house with a screen door—I blow the horn and this lady walks out [inaudible 53:30].

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ebony Love, February 13, 2014 Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, March 16, 2018 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019