AAHP 362A; Harmeling; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 362A Dan Harmeling African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini and Justin Dunnavant on November 20, 2014 1 hour, 1 minute | 30 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 362A

Interviewee: Dan Harmeling

Interviewer: Ryan Morini and Justin Dunnavant Date: November 20, 2014



	M:	So this is Ryan Morini from the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I’m here with—

	D:	Justin Dunnavant. M:	And—

	H:	Dan Harmeling.



	M:	It’s November 20th, 2014. We’re sitting here in the Proctor Program conference room. Thanks for joining us today Mr. Harmeling.

	H:	Oh, you’re welcome.



	M:	So we were especially interested in talking today about some of the Civil Rights activities you were involved in, in Gainesville and especially down in Ocala.

	H:	Okay.



	M:	So when did you first get involved with Civil Rights in Florida, let’s start there.



	H:	Well the first really active thing that I did relative to Gainesville was in the summer of 1963. It was either early June or late May, but it’s easy to trace. It was at a time when Charles Chestnut III and some high school students and some others were testing some of the facilities around town, the restaurants and by and large, everything was segregated. There may have been a Morrison’s Cafeteria that would serve people. That was an interesting situation cause Morrison’s was kind of a Southern tradition and all the waiters were African American men who, as you got to the end of the line, cause it was Morrison’s Cafeteria, they took your trays to the table with a towel, you know, very formal kind of thing. And there would’ve been hell to pay, [Laughter] if people, Black and





White or whatever it was, were being turned away at the door. So they decided early on that they would serve everybody so that was kind of a nice thing. But yeah, all the fast food restaurants were segregated and in particular right across campus here, on University Avenue, a place called the College Inn, which it’s been different things. It was a Purple Porpoise, I don’t know what it is now, but it’s almost directly across from Buckman Hall. College and that was a focus. So anyway, what drew me in was that there was a confrontation at the Florida Theatre on University Avenue, which at the time was a movie theatre. And Charles and others went there one night or early evening to buy tickets and they were refused. So they stayed at the window so there was a visible presence, a Civil Rights presence. Well I wasn’t there, but it quickly drew a crowd first of all, some of the rabble rousing Whites came and started yelling and so on. But the Black community being very adjacent to that area, what’s called the 5th Avenue area, now they call it the Pleasant Street area, came over and there they were two groups, a real stand-off. Well, it didn’t lead to any violence, but it led to some close calls. Anyway, it made headlines. I saw the paper and all of a sudden I realized what I’d been reading about in the paper was here in Gainesville. Of course, I was busy on campus. Sometimes you hardly leave campus. You go to class, you find a place adjacent to class and so you really don’t connect much with the community. And I said, “I’ve got to be a part of this.” And my twin brother and I, who were very active together, we said, “Well let’s find out where the NAACP meets.” And so actually the article said that there would be a mass meeting at a particular church. I think it’s, I’m not sure, I think it’s Bethel but it’s





right on 6th Street. Very close and so we went to the NAACP meeting that night and that was it. We realized at that point that we really felt a need to be a part of the Civil Rights Movement. Be a part of the struggle for equality because—and there’s a background to this because the formative years that we had had in high school had made us feel that we had an obligation to be involved in fighting for equality. Not to help someone else but to help that sense that we’re all a part of it, the idea that all of us are brothers, brothers and sisters. So, and this happened through, and this is important background, this happened through the First Methodist Church in Winter Park, Florida. All-White church, big establishment church. Well, the one thing a little different about the Winter Park Methodist Church was the minister, Reverend Caxton Doggett and his wife, Becky. They were progressive. The congregation didn’t know it cause I don’t think they would been able to serve there if they did, but he not only was a member of the NAACP, but served on the Florida Civil Rights Commission. So he actually had a role in going around to different cities, have had things happen and were writing reports together with other people on that committee to Washington to tell them what’s going on in the state of Florida. So a very important role. Anyway, his wife Becky was the adviser to our Methodist Youth Fellowship. This is the youth program through the Methodist Church. And we were not only both members of that, we’re active, my brother was the President of the MYF and I think I was the Social Chairmen, making sure that we had parties and stuff like that. Anyway, part of what we did was, Mrs. Doggett arranged for us to meet with our counterparts in the African American church, the Methodist Church. So of course,





they didn’t come to our church, but we went over to their church. We did similar with the Jewish youth. So right away we started getting involved and that was the extent of it, but then no one was tapping us on the shoulder at the time and saying, “Okay hey, join us in this picket line.” That just wasn’t going on. Well, in the summer of [19]63, it happened. [Laughter] And that was it. We just felt an enormous sense of connection and I think one thing that I realized when I—now why could I just jump so easily into this? Well first of all, I didn’t have any doubt that I was right because, well, my twin brother and I felt the same way. And who has each other’s back but your twin brother? [Laughter] How could you, you know, it’s not like, “Well what are the social repercussions? What is my risk in my social group?” Well, the role we had played ours was essentially to stand in our beliefs and I remember even in Civil Rights, the debates when we debated things like the Civil Rights thing in high school or even interracial marriage, I was always on the side of regressive than interracial marriage and so things like this. So that’s part of the background, so it was really a lead in. Plus, we weren’t Southerners. We had come from the state of Wisconsin and both my parents were obviously not active in the NAACP or anything like that. But very much lessons that the children were taught in our family about equality, that we’re all equal and that even though we didn’t study segregation, discrimination, when it came time for our family, and my brother and I were born in [19]41, when we moved to Florida in [19]51, we were 10 years old, we saw that things were segregated. And back as a youth, I thought, well, that was just that the two communities decide to live separately. It’s like well, “I guess Black people are





here and White people are here.” And only later as you get older do you realize the enormous amount of coercion that goes with it, that the laws were this way and that facilities certainly weren’t separate but equal. I mean it was a very distinct difference. So with that background we were ready to fight and do an equal part in the Civil Rights Movement. So that’s a long answer. [Laughter] Now that takes us to—we’re now on the picket line. [Laughter]

	M:	So you were about 22, when you’re joining— H:	[19]63 well. So I was still 21—

	M:	21, okay.



	H:	Cause we turned 22 in November 6th. M:	Okay.

	H:	So we were 21.



	D:	Happy Belated [Laughter]



	M:	Well, so how did you end up going from Gainesville to Ocala?



	H:	Well, first of all, we got active in Gainesville and by being active in Gainesville and the NAACP, we also got in touch, not only with the Black community, Charles Chesnut, some of the high school students—do you know the name Joel Buchanan?

	M:	Oh, yeah.



	H:	Okay, well Joel was one of those high school students. He was always on the picket line. Reverend Wright’s daughter was always on the picket line. Dr. Edgar Cosby, the Black dentist, his daughter was always on the picket line. And some of the others, but there was a core, plus the name that might come up sometimes





and I never wanna forget, Al Daniels, who was an African American teacher at Lincoln High School, later on a teacher at Santa Fe. He was an adviser and he was one of the few professional people who was always there with us. And for many people, as in other communities, it was kind of a risk. Would he still hold his job if—as it turned out Al, it worked out fine with Al, but Al was definitely right there in the middle of it. Charles Chestnut, Al Daniels, some people like that. So anyway, we also met Judy, at the time Judith Beninger. Does the name Judith Beninger mean something?

	M:	Yeah.



	H:	Okay. Later on, Judith Brown, when she married Gillian Brown, but now she was Judy Beninger and Judy was there at the NAACP meeting. She had actually joined a little earlier. She was from the Gainesville community, so we linked up right away with Judy. All of a sudden, here we were activists. And then another name, Dana Swan. Dana Swan, that name will come up later on maybe, too. So that was four of us right there who were White. Then we linked up with, on campus that had already started, we hadn’t been on the first couple of meetings, the Student Group for Equal Rights—SGER, as it was noted. And this was Marshall Jones and some of the students, some graduate students, some other faculty members, and so we started going to their meetings as well. But one thing that happened in the midst of this is we started reading that things were going on in Ocala and what really drew us in—I’m trying to think of the events now as they happened, a core member, a White core member, Zev Aelony, came down not to Ocala at first, he came to Dunnellon. And the student who invited him to come





had started a CORE chapter there. She’s African American, her name is, at the time, Betty Wright, now it’s Betty Wright Blakely. Betty Wright had just finished a couple of years with Pat Due up in Tallahassee Llaughter] and now it was—In Tallahassee it was CORE. It wasn’t NAACP, it wasn’t SCLC, or SNCC, it was CORE. And it was CORE because Priscilla and Pat had been to a CORE meeting in Miami and that’s what stimulated them to start the CORE chapter in Tallahassee. So this was happening in the summer of [19]63. Here’s Betty down in Dunnellon and Zev Aelony is a CORE worker and joins her and gets on the picket line in Dunnellon, either a segregated restaurant or some facility. Maybe it was a convenience store. I don’t know what exactly it was. But the Marion County Sherriff’s Department come out and they arrest Zev. No one else gets arrested, just Zev on the charge of vagrancy. And there’s an article, I don’t know if you’ve seen it, but if you haven’t, something about, well he had to be a vagrant because he said he had an income but how can you live on $25 a week and that’s was CORE was paying him. So they put him in jail. Well, the jails were completely segregated, obviously by sex, but also by race. And when they put him in with the White prisoners, they let the White prisoners know that he was one of these demonstrators and with all the derogatory language that goes with it, to name him. He was beaten, savagely beaten, in jail and again, some of the articles may refer to this that made headlines. And that’s what we read. And so Judy, I think, initiated the contact about what’s going on because Pat Due came down to Ocala to protest Zev’s beating and tried to get him released from bail.

And that’s how we met Pat Due. And of course, then we met Betty Wright and





from then on, the rest of the summer, Judy and Dana and I—my brother had other things going on, I think he was more involved with his academic career. I think he was already in his Masters, I don’t know, but anyway, he was up here. Well he was more involved with SG, a student group too. But so we started attending the mass meetings in Ocala, which were going on. And when you hear about mass meetings, Dr. King speaking at a mass meeting and the crowd— that’s what they had in Ocala. We never had anything close to that in Gainesville. But they had a dynamic Minister Frank Pinkston Jr. and the congregation that they had, it was him and father, Frank Pinkston Sr., who operated this church.

We had a reunion—neither one of you were part of this reunion? Of some Civil Rights activity?

	M:	I don’t think so.



	H:	Oh okay. Well I’ll get to that later but anyways, that’s the church. That’s where Mrs. Pinkston, that’s her church, Ann Pinkston, yeah, that’s her church, okay and so that’s where the mass meetings were. We got to know other young people, the African American people, who were home for the summer. And they were operating the NAACP Youth Council and they were active and they were impressive. We just, I mean, we just felt this was a wonderful life to get involved with these young people that had this enormous courage. And it just, it said, we’ve gotta have the same thing and it just—and I have to tell you, it struck me so quickly, this enormous courage that these Black youth had. It’s like, “Wow, they’re standing to all this Klan stuff and the cops and so on, this is some—I wanna be a part of this, you know, how can I—I want this to rub off on me. It’s





like being a part of a championship team, I mean, this is”—and so we really linked up with them and started to attend all the meetings and so on. Zev, once he was released, he didn’t stay around because he didn’t wanna face possibly being convicted of vagrancy, back in the jail and another beating. So he actually went to Americus, Georgia. And that was probably one of the biggest, toughest, racist things that was going on in Southern Georgia. Americus, Georgia and if you look up Americus, Georgia the summer of [19]63, maybe even into [19]60. I mean they were jailing people in what was amounting to sheds and feeding literally bread and water and that was in the middle of that, something [inaudible 16:46] You’re from Minnesota I learned later on, people still talk about Zev [Laughter] I don’t know if John Due has ever talked about Zev, but he was quite something.

	M:	I haven’t been able to ask him about it.



	H:	I never got to meet him. I never got to meet him, I just knew, you know, that that’s really linked us up with that. And so Judy and Dana and I would spend time with Betty, doing different activities and meetings and so on and helping organize mass meetings, and as well as attending that. And then one thing is if—the meetings, the mass meetings would take place at night and usually they’d end about 9 or 10 o’ clock at night. And when the meeting was over, here we were— Judy had a car so Dana and I, course went down; we were returning to Alachua County. Well, the people there in the NAACP knew that that was very risky cause the Klan was very observant. Now, the police department, as far as I’m—the sheriff’s department and the Klan were one in the same usually because the





Klan’s the enforcers. The intimidation, the violence, they would provide an armed escort, they’d follow us in a car, with their riffles and their shotguns. And they just said, “Don’t worry, you’ll be safe, as long as we’re behind you. And once you get to the county line”—see the Klan could get permission to operate by the sheriff. The sheriff was probably the most powerful political person at the time, elected sheriff, and called the shots on any aspect, the county sheriff. And so in Marion County, the sheriff had said, “eh Klan you’re doing your job, just keep it up. Just don’t, you know, well let us know what you’re doing.” They weren’t carrying out any violence that evidently was apparent in Alachua County, so they’d escort us to the county line, we’d be fine, for the rest of the way. [Laughter] The other thing we did is if you were traveling, anytime, particularly at night, you didn’t wanna have what’s called a mixed car without—if you saw headlights especially coming up behind you. If the driver was White, everybody White could stay seated.

Anybody Black had to be down. And if the driver was Black, then everybody White had to get down. Cause once they saw a mixed car they knew it was Civil Rights cause there was no social interaction between Blacks and Whites at all. They knew they saw Black and White people together that was a Civil Rights Movement [Laughter] And it was significant that I remember Reverend Ralph Abernathy came down and I mentioned the name Betty Wright. I’ve kept up a friend, she’s married and now retired living up in Maryland, her last name is Blakely now, and she reminded me she said, “Well don’t you remember when Reverend Ralph Abernathy came and spoke at the church? That you don’t remember the role you played?” I said, “Yes.” She said, you did the New





Testament scripture. [Laughter] She asked me would I—because they finally had some Whites involved in the Movement, you know, you couldn’t do that if you were Ocala. They’d probably burn their house down but we’re in Gainesville [Laughter] so I gave the New—they provided me, you know, I got up on the podium. I recall it now. I mean it was really something that I could be up there.

And then I did speak in one of the churches at a mass meeting in Dunnellon that Betty Wright had organized with her CORE group and that was a big mass meeting. Like they had not quite as large a church. But I remember that after I spoke and I spoke about how we in Gainesville are doing this, this, and this and we want the kind of integration or the kind of desegregation that’s taking place in Gainesville, we want to make sure that this freedom, this equality is extended everywhere. And we’re gonna work together and we’re gonna come down with other students and so on. And Judy remembers that the sheriff’s department was outside looking through the window and she was close enough she could see what was going on. And heard one of the White—of course all the cops were White—he pulled out his gun [Laughter] and he said, “Should I?” I didn’t know this, she said, “Should I shoot him now or later?” [Laughter] I mean, it could’ve just been his little macho gesture to his fellow White crackers but that’s—violence was what they did. And of course when you think about all the violence and the lynching and all that, the hardships that Black people faced, I mean, obviously all we were doing is finding out about it now. I was never—and just to let you know, Zev got beaten badly. I was never beaten in anything that I did. I was threatened a couple of times and one time it really scared me. I thought I was, cause I was in





Montgomery, Alabama, after the Selma to Montgomery March and the March had ended and I was walking back to the Black community. But I wasn’t there with any friends; in fact I had just been out of jail. I was in jail in Montgomery but I made the last day of the March, but I didn’t really know anybody. So I was walk— and these two White guys pulled up in a pick-up truck and aimed a rifle at me and said that they saw, they were gonna go around the block, if they saw me again they were gonna kill me. And it really affected me. It was like no, I’m not gonna be dying in Montgomery, Alabama [Laughter] And even though Dana Swan stayed on that summer, was invited to stay and do voter registration in Alabama in the Selma and Montgomery area, I went back and I remember it affected me so much. I mean I entered a period of depression that lasted a couple of weeks, I still remember just, what have I got into. Of course I recovered; it’s not like that lasted all the time. But these are just some of the memories of talking about it now just come up. It was significant. Those of us and I mean, it’s like my wife Kathy and Zoharah Simmons, obviously Pat and so on.

This is what our life has meant was being—it’s that change that made this enormous purpose in like, “Why are you alive?” Well, we happen to be in this place and during this time and this obviously was so important. Yeah, we were sincere. It wasn’t a game. It wasn’t a lark. And sometimes it’s misrepresented that, oh these young people yeah and then they get older, they don’t even know what the Civil Rights—they’re just out making their money. And it’s not true. The large majority of people who were very active in the Civil Rights Movement have





continued this kind of activism their entire life. It was a life changing experience, yeah, so that’s [inaudible 24:37], right?

	M:	So what were these mass meetings like in Ocala, in particular but –?



	H:	Well, in some respects they resembled a church service in that it was very purposeful and I’ll describe one which was very exciting. They’d start off with some songs, all the hymns were Civil Rights hymns, and sometimes the youth choir would be up front and there’d be a lot of clapping. So and again just relating to some of the news film, you see, this was what the Ocala movement was. And then they’d introduce various people who were there and what they were doing, sort of an update. So and so was arrested for sitting in such and such. Later on, we’re running out of bail money so we’re gonna ask everyone to contribute as much as they can at the conclusion of service and they would do that. We’d all march up, put our money into the baskets and then they’d count it. And then they’d say, “Okay we’re 200 dollars short. We need ten people to come up with twenty dollars.” Well then, some of the businessmen would come up. Again, these are all African Americans; this is the African American community coming together. And what I’ve heard from Ann Pinkston, I didn’t know at the time, is most of all the other congregations, African American congregations in Ocala, did not participate. This was the one place it did. They all feared retaliation. See, if you had a job and your White employer saw you there, that might be the last time you—just say, “Oh I saw you at the [inaudible 26:29]. Your church had a mass meeting.” Or limited amount of employment. For many of the Black women it was domestic work, taking care of children or cleaning the house or stuff like that or





cooking or something like that. It was risky and people lost their jobs. So anyway, the other thing is they were deciding to have a boycott and the boycott, as the fall went on and we continued to go to the meetings, they were getting closer to Christmas and they were boycotting all the stores that refused to hire African Americans, no clerks, nothing. Maybe there was somebody who swept the floor or something like that or carried out the trash. But why would you be shopping in a place that didn’t respect you and give you or others employment? And so what they did was they took movie film. This was just back when you just had the eight millimeter or whatever it was and they would show any Black person that walked into either one of these stores. They developed the film, they’d show that as part of the mass meeting. [Laughter] That was serious. It was serious. “Oh, I don’t know, does anyone know about this?” [Laughter] I don’t know, maybe she doesn’t know what’s going on.” And then anyway, we’d have the scripture reading and so on and more songs. Of course, they’d be some prayers and then there’d be the message, the talk, the speech, the sermon. And this was always a very dynamic part, whether it was a visiting person like Reverend Abernathy or Frank Pinkston Jr. And he had just come from his seminary. He had just become an ordained minister, so he had come from the Carolinas, North Carolina, I forget where it was, but that’s where the sit-in movement had started. And so he had been a part of that. So that enthusiasm and that idea that we can—this is a time we make change. Everybody’s doing it and if we stick together, there’s no turning back. I think that’s the other part that made it, the sacrifices that people make, the risks people took with their employment and stuff like that and made it





something. We’re all in this time; we’re all in. [Laughter] So then and then yeah, people go on their way.

	M:	People have told us that Frank Pinkston was a very, a particularly dynamic speaker.

	H:	Yeah.



	M:	Is there anything you could share in terms of his style or—?



	H:	I would say he was equal to what you’ve seen on news film for Dr. King. How people would react. They’d stand up and cheer, amen. You know, he didn’t have to say, “Someone say amen.” You been to a church where there’s someone saying, “Is there an amen?” [Laughter] No. He’d never had to—amen. Standing up and clapping. It was the kind of thing that provided people with a sense that the time was now and that Ocala was doing its part. Marion County, too, was a part of this. It did take that activism in Gainesville because little by little the city establishment realized that for the image of the University of Florida not to really look bad, cause we had other examples like the University of Mississippi and so on where people were being killed. That maybe, maybe, let’s see if we can see one of the progressive places. So little by little these restaurants were capitulating and the one across the street, the College Inn, they never served anybody unless they made a mistake. And one time they made a mistake. They actually served Charles Chesnutt the III. They thought he was Arab or something. [Laughter] He’ll tell you that too. In fact they went in to test it and they served him and it was like, “What the hell is goin’ on? I’m a Black man, don’t serve me!” [Laughter] They told the other people with him to go away. And one





time this didn’t really get a story in the newspaper until later on, but at different points the Student Group for Equal Rights was picketing the College Inn. Well, this is back to Gainesville. I can tell that story another time. Yeah.

M:   Well, I mean—



	H:	[Laughter] We did a sit-in at the College Inn. M:	Well, I guess another time, yeah.

	H:	Okay, okay. Just put down cause we actually charged the owner of the restaurant with assault. He assaulted the Black student—

	D:	Maybe we can get the story.



	H:	[Laughter] [Inaudible 31:39] Okay, so, the Student Group for Equal Rights would have either weekly or biweekly meetings and in this particular meeting they decided well, let’s give a break to the College Inn. Let’s suspend our picketing for a while. Let’s see if that’ll help. Maybe it’s the pressure. Maybe, you know—and I in the meeting, I just said, “What is this? We gotta keep the pressure on. These people aren’t gonna listen to anything but direct action. You know, we’ve got to really force their hand.” So, I said to a couple of students as the meeting was over, I said, “Let’s go and test. Let’s find out. Maybe they’ve already changed.” [Laughter] So I talked to Charles Spatz, who was one of the African American students. I can’t think of the other one, but I know it was Charles.

	D:	How do you spell that last name? H:	S-p-a-t-z.

	D:	Okay.





	H:	S-p-a-t-z. Yeah. There’s a list, by the way, of people that ran for student government office under the Freedom Party and under the Freshman Council, where you’ll see four names. One name was my sister, Jane Harmeling, but the other three were three of the African American Black students, all males, who were running as Freshman Council and I think Charles was one of those. [Laughter] That was later on, that was in February of [19]65, but anyway so here we are. So me and my gosh, I can’t think of who was with me. We went up to the counter with two Black students who stayed out in the street. We went up to the counter, got four cokes and as it turned out the table next to the front window was empty and brought our four cokes down and sat down. And so then as soon as we sat down, the two young men came and joined us. We had integrated the College Inn. They were fine! We were sipping our drinks and we thought hey, maybe they changed their policy. It was one guy in the restaurant; we already knew about him. Later on, we realized it was him. He had been writing segregationist letter that your home is your castle, you know. He happened to be there. He went in the back to the office, got the co-owner. His name slips me right now, but anyway, and so he comes out. I can’t think of his name.

Hammond was one, but this was the other guy. [Laughter] Shoot. It’s in those articles that I passed.

	M:	Okay, okay.



	H:	But anyway, so here we are and he comes up and he sees the four of us sitting there. And he turns around and he yells to the people at the counter, “Who let them in? Who let them in?” And everybody is just holding up their hands. “Who





served them? Who served them?” They didn’t know what the hell had happened. [Laughter] Here we are having our four cokes. So we’re in a booth and so here’s the co-owner. He comes here. I’m sitting here. Charles is here, or no, I was here. Charles was here and then the other, yeah, the two African American students were here. Anyway, he comes up and he says, “What’re you doing here?” And he puts his hand on Charles, kinda pulls on him like—Well instead of just getting up or saying, “Get your hands off” or something like that, Charles simply, he falls to the floor. Well he didn’t lie on the floor. He gets up again and the manager is so angry, he grabs the coke, and Charles is back in his seat now, he grabs the coke away from Charles. As he grabs it, he’s so manic it goes flying over his shoulder. The thing is there’s another student coming in the door of the restaurant. It hits him in the face. [Laughter] So the table next to the door where he’d already taken away the other students’ coke, cause he wasn’t gonna have them drink cokes in his place, he takes the coke and dumps it on the guy’s head. [Laughter] Well that didn’t faze the co-manager. His only condition was Charles and this other man because that’s—I mean when you think about the embeddedness of this racism, it was their world was coming apart because this was not gonna—course his help was Black, his cooks were Black. [Laughter] Now his counter help was all White, but the people preparing all the food were Black. And so finally the cops show up and they’re calm. “Okay, what is it?” “Well, these people are trespassing in our restaurant.” So the cop says, “Well, have you asked them to leave?” Cause this is a routine that cops did in Gainesville. They were pretty professional about it. “Well, I don’t know, they know





they don’t belong here.” So the guy says, “Well let me do it.” Listen, the owner said that you’re trespassing and he wants you to leave. Will you leave?” Yeah. So we got up and left. [Laughter] Next morning, Charles goes down to the police station and files assault charges and actually that’s when it got covered. [Laughter] The co-owners charged with assault and the case comes up. I get a subpoena to testify and so there are about seven of us testifying precisely what happened. Of course there’s segregationist who ran to get the manager, you know, to confront—nobody else cared. Nobody else cared. Whole restaurant.

Most of them probably thought it was about time, but this is the nature of what was going. And so the evidence was heard. It was heard before a judge. It wasn’t a jury. And at the conclusion the judge said, “Well, we had one bit of evidence from the segregationist kid who said he never saw the manager touch Charles at all. Charles fell out in the booth [inaudible 38:01]. No one disputed that he fell and that he was on the floor, but he fell by himself. And so because of conflicting I have no choice but to acquit.” So he was acquitted, but I do have that caption still. I clipped it up from the newspaper so [Laughter] that was our little fight.

	D:	Does the name David Payne ring a bell?



	H:	David Payne? David, okay, is it P-A-Y-N-E? D:	Yeah, P-A-Y-N-E.

	H:	Well David Payne was a high school student. I don’t know a David Payne except the David Payne that I was at Winter Park High School with.

	D:	Oh okay. He was, I guess he was involved in some College Inn disputes later on—





	H:	Oh, no. It’s not P-A-Y-N, its David, oh God, my sister would know much better.



Again, I’ll make a note of it, I’ll give you his correct name. No, he was, David was very involved. Yeah, no, David Payne just, the only David Payne I knew was a fellow high school student and I never saw him at, he may have been in Gainesville. I don’t think David Payne, the one I knew from high school, ever demonstrated Civil Rights. The David I knew and his last name starts with P was very involved and actually left school and went to Selma. He was in the Selma to Montgomery March. We actually had about ten students leave school and go to Selma to be a part of the Selma to Montgomery March, yeah. I never made it to Selma because SNCC was also—the destination was Montgomery, so SCLC and SNCC were in Selma but SNCC was also active and demonstrating in Montgomery, which is a capital city. And so when I got to Montgomery waiting for the bus to take me to Selma, SNCC said, “No, there are too many people in Selma already. Stay here with us, demonstrate. We need people willing to go to jail.” So I was in a picket line and every time a group would be arrested, we’d put up another picket line in front of the state capitol. Wallace was their president then and they’d immediately arrested. So I was in—during most of the March I was in jail in a place called Kilby Prison. I got a nice Western Union telegram that students from here sent me, addressed to Kilby Prison. I’ll have to bring that up; I’ll find stuff like that [Laughter], little artifacts of the Movement.

	M:	Do you remember any of the students from here going out to St. Augustine?



Cause that would’ve been around the same time I think.





	H:	Okay, now St. Augustine was the summer of [19]64 and St. Augustine, again, just like in reading about the beating of Zev Aelony, we read in the newspaper of the beating of Dr. Hayling. And Dr. Hayling was a leader of the Movement and what happened was he and someone else had gone to see what was going on at a Klan rally and they didn’t realize that around it were these Klan guards. And they caught him and brought him on stage. Do you know anything about this?

	M:	Unh-uh.



	H:	And took Dr.Hay—this is an African American dentist and savagely beat him on stage and might have killed him except that somebody said, “No, no, let him live.” Anyway and then by the way then John Due got involved because as a result of his beating on stage at the Klan rally, they charged Dr. Hayling with assault. And so that’s when John Due came down to St. Augustine. He said that, I think John relates that as the first Civil Rights case he did. He had just passed the bar, yeah, when he came to St. Augustine. So anyway, we read about that. I wrote Dr. Hayling a letter and he said, “Yeah, we could use some help from the University of Florida.” The only Whites that had been involved were up in New England and they got a lot of publicity cause one was the mother of the present mayor of Massachusetts, her name was Peabody, one of these Mayflower families. She had earlier in the spring been arrested in some of the demonstrations, but they were all going down there. So we went over there and Julian Brown—this is later on, Judy Benninger’s husband, Julian. Julian and Dana and Jim and I went over to St. Augustine and met with— we didn’t meet with Dr. Hayling, we met with Hosea Williams. Does that name ring a bell? He





was one of the associates of Dr. King. When Dr. King wasn’t there, he was in charge, of course, together with Dr. Hayling. But really, a tough man. [Laughter] Talk about somebody who was schooled in what it takes to make a Civil Rights Movement, Hosea Williams is right there on top. [Laughter] So he said, “Yeah, we could use your help. We’re going down to the Monson Motor Lodge, that’s that famous place where they dump the acid in the pools, you remember that? Okay and there’s a restaurant there and we’re confronting the restaurant and people are getting arrested; we’re filling the jails.” So that first day then, Dana and Julian were arrested and then Jim and I returned to Gainesville. I don’t know, we both had tests to do or something like that. [Laughter] Anyway, then when we came back, then we were arrested, and then Marshall Jones was arrested at the same time. And so was a sociology professor, his name was Jim Brown and then a James Dacey, who was a graduate student in mathematics. And so there were the seven of us I think, yeah, I think seven of us, yeah. And we were all in jail then in St. Augustine and that’s when they—our second night we were there, maybe the first or second night we were there, again, segregated, we heard the African American men singing freedom songs so we started singing freedom songs, see if they could hear us. [Laughter] Well in this case there were seven of us so the White prisoners, who actually were only three of ‘em, there were ten in all but three were the non-civil rights people. They weren’t intimidating us at all.

And we start singing freedom songs and all of a sudden the sheriff put the lights on, “Who the hell is singing [mumbling], you’re all going to the sweatbox.” So all ten of us were brought out to the middle of the field into this shed, concrete shed.





The whole shed was smaller than this room and it was in two parts so I think of it like a small bathroom about, five feet by five feet. It wasn’t anything as large as this. And then so we were separated and then later on when the Black young men heard what happened to us, then they started yelling. [Laughter] So some of them were put in—so the Whites, of course they had to keep us segregated, the Whites had to be about ten of us in one little cell so we actually—you couldn’t all sit down at the same time. So we were there for the next five days and so that was part of the—they called that the sweat box. And after that—and again there’s newspaper clippings of this—one of the professors went to federal court and about cruel and unusual punishment. And actually a federal judge ruled that there had to be some oversight because of some of the things that were going on in St. Augustine. So that took place too. And again, there’s an article that Julian Brown wrote, it’s a front page article in the Gainesville Sun. And when you see this in these articles, they have the front page of the Alligator has these bars going across to resemble a jail cell. And Julian writes his first person account of that, yeah, about being in the sweat box in St. Augustine. I mean the Movement itself had a lot of violence and again, this was an occasion where none of us were beaten. I mean, we were put in this bad condition, but I never wanna characterize it like we were, you read about these people that obviously were killed and beaten badly and so things like that, that didn’t happen to us. Not that it wasn’t [inaudible 47:10] [Laughter] Anyway, is there more about St. Augustine, cause maybe I’m not answering—

	M:	Oh, there’s more about everything.





	H:	Yeah, okay. I mean, I wanna answer yours. Sometimes I’m just telling you stories—

	D:	No, it’s good. It’s good for us.



	H:	Well one, I will tell you this. This, I mean this is something that I wanna talk about. So when Jim and I went over to St. Augustine and Dana and Julian were gonna be arrested—Well, when you went to a restaurant you obviously had to go in a mixed group cause if you were just White they’d open the door and let you in. But if you were in a mixed group, of course then you got arrested from trespassing. So two of the Black people in the community, a man and a woman, joined us so there were six of us in the car. And on the way to the restaurant we were run off the road. The Klan saw us coming and actually boxed us in and here our car was, here’s the curb. There’s a car in front and a car in the back and then a car here. And the guys in the front came out with chains. And so my brothers drive and I’m in the back and everyone’s, you know, “What the hell is gonna happen?”. So a guy comes to the window, these other guys were just dressed in I don’t know just jeans or something, these White guys. He’s got a suit on. He said, “Alright, I’m gonna tell you guys one thing. You better get back to Gainesville.” And they can tell Gainesville because now every license plate indicated where you’re from. It didn’t say Alachua, but if it said 11 and then your number 11 was Gainesville. So they knew things were going on because we had been there before. So they said, “Get back to Gainesville and never come back.” But what happened was, if this guy hadn’t come up and this would’ve been something. My brother was driving and he said, later on he said, “I was revving





the engine.” He was about to jump the curb and just come roaring right through this guy with the chain. I mean would’ve killed him. Now that would’ve brought some, [Laughter] but it didn’t happen.

	M:	Close call, though.



	H:	Klan would’ve yeah—that car was gonna take out that Klan member. My brother would’ve done it.

	D:	Well that reminds me of that time you told us a little about when you all infiltrated the White Citizens’ Council Meeting.

	H:	Oh, yeah. Oh that was Frank Pinkston, Reverend Pinkston asked us to do that. This was Dana and me and it was a night meeting. This was—they were gonna go mainstream, White Citizens’ Council. This was what they were doing in Alabama and Mississippi, and this was like the outstanding citizens, you know, White Citizens’ Council. And so we just kinda dressed like we thought the rednecks would do [inaudible 50:22] Put your head down, never look up at anyone [Laughter] slouch around, pretend you’re chewing something [Laughter] And we just went and sat in the back [inaudible 50:33] [Laughter] I wanted to take notes but you know, I just couldn’t risk it. And I told Dana later on, I said, “God wouldn’t it be something”—the guy was running the meeting, the White Citizens’ Council guy had his briefcase there so I thought, God, later on, “What if we had just run out and grabbed his briefcase and ran like hell?” [Laughter] But I’m glad we didn’t cause I could just see [inaudible 51:00]. So anyway, when we left, when the meeting was over, then we just walked and it was only like three or four blocks to where Reverend Pinkston and so on had agreed to meet. And we just





talked all about the meeting, what we had seen so they could know. Cause they wanted to find out what was the White Citizens’ Council doing, yeah. Now one story, this is definitely an Ocala story that’s worth telling. The public accommodations bill that was passed in the summer of 1964, and this was the first significant civil rights bill in fifty years I think, and it opened up, made it illegal to operate restaurants and refuse service to people by race, color, national origins, and so on. In Ocala—yeah, this will be the last story—In Ocala, four of the restaurants, these were sit-down restaurants, establishment restaurants, overnight became private clubs. They were private clubs, had to be a member.

So Reverend Pinkston right away reacts to this, calls me up, and said, “Dan, you could help us out down here. Can you and somebody else, White, come and join, become members and then establish that you also have some other people you want to become members and they’ll invite you to have these other people come from Gainesville to be members.” And I said, you know, “One of your African American friends will come with you and when they’re refused service, cause we assumed they are, then we can file suit because it’ll show that these private clubs are just a sham.” So that’s what we did. Marilyn Clycloff, that name will come up later. Marilyn Cycloff and I went down and I guess, I don’t know what it took to eat a meal then, but Reverend Pinkston gave us each ten bucks and so anyway, we ate and established membership. All we had to do is sit down. They said, “Oh so you want to become a member?” We filled out a little name and they gave us a membership card. [Laughter] So now we were members. And so we left with four membership cards. The next Sunday—Oh, one conversation we had was,





“Yeah, this is a nice restaurant.” We didn’t say anything about segregation or anything like that but we just said, “You know, I’m sure others, some of our friends in Gainesville would like to come down. Can they come down and be members?—and no, we didn’t say members, just “come and eat,” cause we didn’t wanna emphasize that cause they might have known. But they never recognized us from having been around. Plus, they always thought that somebody White—“Oh that was just a lark, they’re really on our side.” So they thought we were there just like, “Oh yeah, he used to do that but now he’s back in line with all the other Whites.” So anyway, we had our membership card so Rick Oliver, student who had transferred from Florida A&M and his story was interesting cause he came here as a junior to study engineering. Well, A&M had located a full scholarship for him to go to Atlanta because they had an engineering program there. This is the Black university, I think it was Atlanta University but the at time all-Black. And they, [beeping] I can finish this and they—the Florida legislature had a law that had like fifty thousand dollars a year that any Black student who wanted to go to a White school here for a program that wasn’t offered at Florida A&M would get a full scholarship to go out of state. They paid for him. Now, I’ve got a copy of that, too. I’ve got a copy of that law.

Anyway, he said, “No, I want to come.” So he actually had to fight for the right to come to the University of Florida, but it had already been de-segregated. So here’s Rick and he comes down with us and the first restaurant we go to we walk up and they’re obviously not expecting some kind of test. We just sit down in a booth and Marilyn and I have our membership cards out. I said, “We’re here to





eat.” “Oh we’re not gonna serve you.” They didn’t say why, they just, “We’re not gonna serve you. We’re gonna ask you to leave right now.” So we left. Next place, same thing happened. Sat down, they didn’t wanna see membership cards or anything. “We’re not gonna serve you.” By the time we got to the third restaurant, as we left the car and started going to the door, they locked the door closed. So obviously they were in touch with each other. I mean they probably all shared the same lawyer to set up their quote, “private clubs.” So as soon as we finished, the Reverend Pinkston had arranged for Rick to give a deposition of what had happened to him and for Marilyn and I to be witnesses. The NAACP lawyers were there, the justice department lawyers were there, and so were the ALCU. Filed suit on his behalf and very quickly two of the restaurants completely stopped being private clubs and the other two just closed business. But what’s good about it is and I think this will be interesting, it the first, cause this private club thing was happening in the South. It established a legal case based on what had happened with them refusing service for Rick even though the Whites had joined, that it was just a sham and it was only a way to avoid the law. So when I think back on that, I feel damn good. [Laughter] And again that was another link with Ocala. I mean Ocala was just on top of things. Like these movies they showed with people going [inaudible 57:06]–

	D:	If I can ask one last question, why do you think Ocala out of all the other cities in North Central Florida or in the region, why Ocala do you think was such hotbed for activity?





	H:	Well one was because of the community, that the Black community that was organized and fought. Oh, I think Lakeland was just as bad. They just didn’t have the Movement there. Palatka was just as bad, they didn’t have a Movement.

Obviously, St. Augustine had a Movement because of Dr. Hayling. Dr. Hayling by the way was a fighter pilot for the Air Force in the Korean War and was a dentist that did interracial practice. The African American dentist was the best dentist in town and half his clients—but when he started with the demonstrations against segregated restaurants, that all changed. The Klan rolls up and wanted to kill him, yeah. But that’s Ocala and people still say that about Ocala. For instance, it would be interesting to find out the housing situation here, I think, obviously there are certain parts of town that are largely African American, but you’ll find African American people living in all parts of town. I don’t think that’s the case in Ocala. I think it’s still largely segregated, yeah.

	M:		We’ll look into that. Well I can keep coming up with questions but guess we gotta hold ‘em for now.

	H:	Okay, well let’s do it the next time because I have some documents I can bring about Ocala, too. I have one where I wrote [Laughter] a real long letter addressed to my relatives up in Wisconsin telling them that unless Ocala would form a biracial committee, which Gainesville had done, that they would write Ocala and tell ‘em they were gonna boycott all their tourist facilities.

	D:	Oh, wow.





	H:	[Laughter] I sent this to my relatives up north. I don’t know if anyone replied, but I took this letter and I went to the city commission meeting and I read it to them. [Laughter] Oh God.

	D:	Well, thank you again.



	H:	Yeah, well this is—thanks. Thanks, its just an opportunity to share. So should we do it next time?

	D:	Yeah, next weekend. M:	Yeah, we can do that.

[Interviewer and Interviewee scheduling next interview] [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amelia D’costa, December 17th 2014 Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, April 27th, 2018 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019