AAHP 339; Miller; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 339 Lois Miller

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini, Rosemary Aldjenatu Florence, Mary Calhoun Williams on May 15, 2014

2 hours, 26 minutes | 67 pages













































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 339

Interviewee: Lois Miller

Interviewers: Ryan Morini, Rosemary Aldjenatu Florence, Mary Caroline Williams Date: May 15, 2014



Interviewers Note: The proceeding interview was recorded on May 15, 2014, at the home of Lois B. Miller. The interview was of Lois B. Miller by Ryan Morini and Mary Caroline Williams. We didn't get a chance to introduce the interview in the customary fashion, so this is just for clarificatory purposes.

	LM:	—looked like, and said, 190—I could even take you further than that. I was five years old when—I was four years old when the First World War soldiers, our soldiers, went to war. I had two of my cousins leave Ocala station down at the depot. We call that the depot. And in the army. And I didn’t know why they were crying, everybody was crying, and I thought—all the people! And we were down at the railroad station. And, in those days, the rear, back of the train, you know, was like, they would stand in the back, and we were waving and all while they went out. Now, the United States always—they got things, they outsmart some people. Anyway, the poor people fought four years, and we went in the last year, and, of course, the war was over. When we went in, we were in one year, and when they came back, I was five years old. And I can remember very well the wraparound uniforms that they wore, the legging part was a wraparound deal.

And I had pictures of it, I think, the kids got from the fathers, or something. But they had the hats like the old feathered soldiers looked, with that hat, and the army colors, and the wraparound legging part. And, of course, I just thought they were great. With all this uniform, they looked so good. Now, that was the beginning of my knowledge of what was going on in Ocala. And in those days,





our people—they were called Colored, and whatever they wanted to call you—at that time, and so—

[Break in recording]



	LM:	Anyway, they, we owned most of Ocala, with all of the power and everything else. But having not had the scope of education to know that knowledge is power, we sold out and, of course, lost our power, and became land-rich Black tribe. That was what happened. And that's how the Whites got control of the power structure in Ocala. Otherwise, the power structure was in the hands of the Black man at that time. It didn’t last that long, they called them carpetbaggers and what-have-you, and you know the story of after slavery days. But I came along very close to the turn of the century. Because, see, I was born in 1913.

And, of course, you have the turn of the century. I had one cousin, who was born in 19[0]6, that I hung out with a lot. She finally married one of the, from the movies, Hall Johnson Choir. They played Green Pastures, you know. And we had the wedding for her in Philadelphia and so forth, because she—and Matthew Shepard, who was one of the great tenors at that time, sang at her house for her wedding. The Hills, in Philadelphia, they had a two-story house, and—because I’ve been very fortunate to know, or be around, what we called, perhaps, I don’t know how you would list it—not much of society, because we didn’t have that much money—but we thought we were very, very proud people because we knew how to carry on our lives in a very special way. And the children were not just allowed to, perhaps, mingle enough to know what was really, really going on. We lived in a world that was altogether our world, and there was no kind of, any





kind of hatred or disloyalty in the families of the Blacks in those days. They were loyal, they were classy, and very, very isolated, so to speak. And yet, my mother was very open-hearted. Like, when she was taking the groceries for a neighbor, and I can remember her coming out of Allred Street over in Tucker Hill, was Sandy Hill. There was all the powers of sand, and they—oh, what’s happening?

	F:	She’ll be right back.



	LM:	Anyway, it was sandy. And she went to go around Allred Street—I don’t know what that street is now, but I had a cousin that lived there, Cousin Corinne and all, and she had been visiting there. But she had the neighbor’s groceries in her car, and the back door flew open, because we had a [19]25 Ford. It was not an

A. Because in [19]28, the Shift, Ford Shift came, but that was a touring car. It had nice covering things to close the windows. Otherwise, it was open, open touring. And—a Model T, that’s what. It was a Model T. So, my daddy bought the chief of police’s Model T when Turnipseed came to Ocala in 1926. And my daddy bought the [19]25 Ford that the police chief had driven around in. Because he pastored right out here at Watula. And we lived in the country, but we slept in the country and we lived in town. Because my daddy pastored out at Watula, which is there now, it’s operating same as when I was a kid except that it’s been improved, new fellowship hall. But it looks the same. The building, the regular building, looks the same. Just in front of the Red Top Motel now. That’s where my dad’s church is still operating in, see. Watula. And so, I kept Broadway hot. In those days, there were all them early teens when you flipped and get torn up for, you know. “I said you weren’t supposed to go down Broadway!” And as long as I got down, and got





in her uncle’s, down to her uncle’s barbershop, where he would see me and know I was all right, “Well, I only was down in front of Murray’s and he, you know, that was all right, because I didn’t go,” and you know. Lashing, they didn’t mind putting it on the butt, back part of you. And so, anyway, what I would like to do is take you down through the businesses that the Colored owned at that time. Now, follow me. Beginning Magnolia, where the courthouse used to be there. Because my mom was going to get two brooms one time, first hundred customers get two brooms. The sun came out hot, and I threw up both hands. We’re in this pushing crowd, massive, just right on that corner. We’re pushing and pushing. The first thing, the window broke, and they backed us up. And then, oh, they made a surge, and I thought, “Oh, I’ll die!” I threw up both hands. “I’m fainting! I’m fainting!” And my mother was so outdone with me, because we got no brooms.

She was going to get two brooms—I think I was about fifteen, or something like that—she was going to get two brooms. I would get a broom, and she would.

First hundred customers would get a free broom. And so, I would always tell my dad when we got home that she did something foolish like that. Because she didn’t have to, he would buy her her brooms, and she didn’t—but she was very, very economical, so she was going to have the two brooms. And I said, “You know what she did? Papa, you know what she did?” I said, “We were in that awful crowd, and we were going to get the two brooms, and we didn’t get no, because she pulled her faint act!” [Laughter] So, I guess I was acting at that time. I did a lot of acting in my day. Anyway, not on Broadway, but in big churches, and in costume and everything else. So, anyway, now, we start Magnolia, with the





courthouse. And across was the Blocker store, they moved out here. It was an exclusive dress store. Halfway that block, about. Right next door was a little, we used to call it hole in the wall, but Charlie Maison had a shoe repair. And he did a lot of leatherwork, because he had leather. And in those days, they didn’t have all these horse farms. But don’t forget, they had all the garden, all the farm, the vegetable farms, where they raised beans, and they raised tomatoes. Farmers, big-time farmers. That’s what they, they kind of became out there. Of farmers, land-rich. Power-poor, and land-rich. So, they have acres and acres, they owned all the territory outside of the city, but they didn’t hold the power channel in the city. So, anyway, Charlie Maison’s Repair was sandwiched in between this beautiful dress, exclusive Blocker’s Dress Store, shop, and the McCrory’s 5-and- 10 on the corner. And then, when you go back—I’ll take you down Magnolia. And going south on Magnolia. There was a meat market—Lowe’s, did you ever hear that name, Lowe’s? I think that Lowe’s Meat Market was either in the block where the Marion Theatre—I think it was after Brother’s Keeper, in that block. I know that when Christmastime came, we used to have the fireworks that the family would shoot off. My dad would do some of the big things. But we had a little scraping thing—did you ever hear of the one that you would scratch on the sidewalk, and it sparkles? And I did that more than one time on Magnolia, in front of that meat market, or what we had there, and the store that sold them. I think that the store that sold them must have been maybe where the theater is.

Anyway, the next—Brother’s Keeper was on, like, that west corner. On the southeast corner, they had, upstairs, a sewing shop up there, and my mother





used to—she didn’t allow us to wear satins but on top. But she had satin underwear, satin slip, with the organdy, they cost a whole lot more than the silk would have cost. She said silk material was for, it was evil-like. It indicated fast life or a bad life. And she would not allow me or my sister—well, my sister was so young. At that time, she was concentrating on what I wore. I had satin underneath; I guess the slip cost more than the dress. But she would take the satin that she would have, and you hemstitched it upstairs there. They had a sewing place and used hemstitch. Then, you cut that hemstitch in half, like. And it became the finish for the thing. And that was kind of expensive. And it was beautiful picoting. You used to call that picoting. And I would have picoting to sashes, and ribbon-bows with the pretty little thing, you know, in my hair and all. Now, going on down the street. We going on down that way. The first theater that Ocala ever had was a wooden building that was between that sewing place—like an upstairs, you’re looking at Brother’s Keeper, now, going on down. On the left, as you go down, was a wooden building there. And I can’t exactly say how they parked—parking, forget it, because only one or two people had cars. And like that, they walked, or whatever, rode with someone. But the fellow who was Mellon Johnson, his name was Johnson, and he liked Sweet Hawkins. My mother had Sweet live with her a little while, and go to Fessenden. Because she was friendly with the Hawkins family down in Shady Grove, somewhere there.

Sweet Hawkins. And she went to New York. And I do declare, she was in, she was working at Sach’s Fifth Avenue, and I was supposed to go to lunch with her. But I think she had changed her—many of them changed. Like, they were like





me, and they became like you. [Points to Ryan Morini] And that was very prevalent at that time. And so, Sweet never went to lunch with me. She was—I worked on the north side of St. Paddy’s, she worked on the south side of—she was in Sach’s Fifth Avenue, and I was in Best and Company, next door to Cartier’s, and Hamburger Heaven was right next… And we were right across from the cathedral. The father used to be out in the crowd. St. Paddy’s Cathedral. That’s where Kennedy was laid out, you know. And I got a chance that time to stand next to the comedian… oh, Lord, now… but I can remember Jimmy Breslin, who was also there. And Charles Evers. Oh, Lord! Oh, he was a great comedian, outstanding! He’s still—because they got there, buses and limos and all, pick up at the entrance to where we went in for our timekeeper for Best and Company. And that day was just a field day for us. I went out to view the body. Of course, they didn’t open the body, and Charles Evers was at one part of—and Andy Williams was at the other, and they had cried until they couldn’t cry any more. But they all, Jimmy Breslin and all, and Evers, and … oh, I can’t think of that fellow. Oh, he was great comedian! Tall, tall like you. And, oh boy, I can’t think right now. But he stood there. He was there for a long time waiting for his.

They waiting for a limo or something to pick them up so they can get to the station and get to Washington. Because, see, they were in New York, for the— that was for Kennedy. All right, now, where—I was at Johnson. Where she must have changed her whole way of living, and I didn’t get to go to lunch. Now, as you get on down the next, I think it’s where your laundry is now. But they have a little laundry where the Gadsden Department store—. She had a department





store, Mrs. Gadsden, because she was my sister’s godmother, and carried her name, Theora. Thelma Theora. And she could go and get dolls and all. But Mrs. Gadsden used to go to New York every year, and she would get that good stuff downtown. And she’d come back and sell it here. See, I knew that because I saw the inside. [Laughter] And then, next door to the Gadsden place. Now, that’s the Gadsden. Oh, nice, now that’s a nice department store. She had dolls, the doll carriages, and all coats, and she bought all that stuff. She was a buyer, and he run the store, help her husband run. And he had the bank going. The front of the bank was in the block that comes to the street, there. See, that’s Magnolia. The storefront was on Magnolia. But the bank front was—that street 2nd or something there—comes down the front of it. So, then, Mister—another little fellow—Brown, Willie Brown, I think—had a little barbershop up there, and he couldn’t sit out there, because that lady—a lady would, White lady with a big Buick used to come through there. And he was a good-looking Black man. And he didn’t, he had to— he couldn’t sit. They used to have boards between the trees. Like, you have trees up the sidewalk. You’d have the boards, and you could sit out with the air and all, you know, in the front. And he couldn’t even sit out here. [Laughter] Because he didn’t want to be here, he didn’t want to be a subject that hanging from the tree!

And so, anyway, now, across the street from that, that was Jim Grier, and that was a beautiful barbershop. He had more money. He had a good barbershop. And that’s where I learned to steer and all, because his daughter was older than me, but he cut my hair. And when he cut my hair—my hair was long, and my mother used to put braids, ribbon bow here, ribbon bow there. Or a big ribbon





bow, or whatever. So, when I cut my hair, we had to get home and have my dad—had to break the news. And it was hard to break the news with her. So, women had the stockings, and they used to use the top of the stockings for a cap. And I had to wear the stocking cap for a while so I can introduce the bob to my daddy. Because it was going to be hell to pay that I had cut off all my hair. [Laughter] And we had to sort of break it, easy-like. She said, “Well, wear the— put the stocking cap on. Now, you keep it on until we can get by this thing!” That was Grier. Now, while we were waiting for him to take me out there, then he’d have to edge it up, and find I cut off all the right—had the pineapple bob. I have a picture of it somewhere with the church, and all this was cut to the scalp. And this was a pump thing, you know. And I had the pineapple bob. But see, he had a better barbershop. And while we would wait for him to take care of me, we’d sit in his car, because he had a President Studebaker. Not just a Studebaker, but the President Studebaker! I told you he had more money than the other little fellow.

So, now, you’re going down, and we called it the brick church, it’s the Mount Zion. And that church has been there, that was the oldest church before Mount Moriah, and Mount Moriah is the Baptist momma or daddy or whatever. Most of the churches all around were emanated from Mount Moriah, which is an old, old church. I remember the old building, before they had the basement that they had services in so long. The old building. And then, when that building, they decided they were going to build a new building, they put the basement. But my gosh, they didn’t have the money to go any further, and they used the basement for the church for a long, long time. So, anyway, now, the Hampton, L.R. Hampton, Sr.,





and his family, lived next door to what we call, it’s Mount Zion, and it was Mount Zion then, but we termed it the brick church. Because that’s where the lawyers and doctors, that was the society church. Let’s put it that way. And the senior, L.R., Sr., and Mrs. L.R—E.C. Mitchell. She was Mitchell, a family with money out of South Carolina somewhere. And she helped Doc get his degree and everything like that. And she conducted my mother’s funeral, and they were good friends. So, they lived in the residence, and that house was not torn down. The Ocala Star-Banner had its headquarters up the hill from there. Over the railroad. There’s a railroad comes through there. And L.R., Jr., see, sold that house, moved it up on the hill like, just across from Ocala NAACP. Ocala Star-Banner’s headquarters, that’s where the old headquarters was, up there. And now, across the street from them was Mr. Boss, and Dr. N.H. Jones. The residences were there. Just across. In front of—right in front of the Mount Zion was a building, that used to be a storage building or something. It was like a building, maybe look like a warehouse or something like that. I can remember, it was old. Now, when you left that, and when down where the road turns now, it’s Light’s there now, Light. And all that hospital territory, and all down there. That was Hunter Field, that was ballpark thing. And Coloreds used to play ball down in there, too. You see, we didn’t have—a lot of our discrimination came about when the tourists started coming. Because I can remember the days when Silver Springs was the open front part. We went all on the front part and everything. But when the tourists and all kept coming, and they made a big thing, see, then they, we went in the back. I





have pictures of that, where, you know, we’re at Paradise Park. Because my little one, my first grandchild, is five years old. I got her out at—

	W:	Paradise.



	LM:	Park, you know— W:	Paradise Park.

	LM:	Paradise Park. Oh, yeah. I’d come down from New York and we’d go to Paradise Park. Now, that takes care of Magnolia. Hunter Field, then you turn—that was ballfield back in there, I didn’t go to that. I never was in there for a ballgame. But they played ball in there. Now, go back up, and begin Magnolia going west. And boy, that’s when you got all Colored businesses all the way. Just about mid- block, that would be Brother’s Keeper, was the drug store, Pinkston’s Drugstore. That’s where that child went to—she lost her mind, and went down there. You know, they had the two-story building out near Howard Center there? I’m always trying to think of their name, now. And she got off-key and landed down at Pinkston’s Drugstore, and they had to—and she used to sit in the yard and tear paper up and all. I can’t think of their name, but they had that two-story building. They come out from where Momma died, there. Oh, that child. I was trying to think of her name. Anyway, it’s one of the old stayed families. Now, and on the end of that street—now, Pinkston’s Drugstore was on the left, and that’s the south side of the street, looking west. And on the corner, the Banks family was very well known in those days, and you know, what’s her name? I have something to help me with. Because she had a beach home at Fernandina Beach—American Beach out there. Because I used to go out there and visit. We





were good friends with Dr. Jones, and he had a home out there. And I’d go swimming and shower in that sulfur water in his garage. He had a garage. When we went in the ocean, we came and took a shower, and we had to go up in the sunroom on the second floor and have a good little nap. And poor Mrs. Jones was so sweet. She’d fix some kind of beautiful dinner. That’s—she was a Bank, that was a big family, outstanding family like her family. They were outstanding people, these people were. They were what they call a class people. And Elsie— hang on, I have it somewhere. Because, you know, I knew I was going to forget her name. I mean, I can’t remember names. I forget the names. Wait, let me get… your Black theater, all right. On Broadway. Caldonia. Caldonia—see, that’s why I have this, so I don’t forget. She was a Banks, and she married L.C. Smith, and they had that department store. And that was a nice department store! It had, like, jeans and old work clothes for people, and just almost anything you want. They knew how to shop. I never knew whether she went to New York, but I knew what Ms. Gadsden was doing because she was a very, pretty close friend. And I knew she bought that stuff, she bought stuff in New York. Now, that’s on that corner. And now, we come to the Hampton block. Now, the Hampton block— naturally, Hamptons were money people right off the reel, because Mrs. E.C. Mitchell Hampton was a, not only intelligent woman, well-learned, but a well- heeled family woman. Background of pretty, pretty cool living. And they always lived aboveboard, so to speak. And the Hampton block housed: first, Dr. Jones used to be on that corner, right upstairs on that corner. Underneath was—my cousin used to come here, and he worked with Mr. Coleman, and then they





moved on down on Broadway. Then, they moved around the corner. But they once were on that corner, downstairs. And Dr. Jones was on that upper end, and Dr. Wilson—now, a lot of you don’t know Dr. Wilson. Dr. Wilson was where the block ended, right at—midway the block, not all the way down the block—that was Hampton Hall, and the dance hall was in between the two doctors. Like, Dr. Jones’s office was over there, and the dance hall—that’s where Booker Wingo lost his shoe. [Laughter] He had size 13 shoes, and one, they, the word was out—I wasn’t up there, but they would tell me what was going on—said, “Oh, Booker Wingo lost his shoe!” [Laughter] Now, the Wilsons, Wilson’s office, I do remember him very well, because Cousin Mattie used to do my hair, you know, before I decided to cut it all off. And she did it in the back. You know what their house was like before Thelma had—they gave it to the city, and they redid it again. On that back porch is where she used to do her hair. And she put a peach—I stepped on a nail, and she put a peach poultice-thing on my foot. And my mother took me down to Dr. Wilson’s, and he was stuffy. “Who put this mess on your foot?” And he took it and threw it in the basket, and then he worked on my foot. But I couldn’t walk for—I had to learn how to walk. Because of not using it for a while. And so, his office was there. And, of course, that brought about a big, big scandal in our society. Because I was very friendly with his nieces. His brother was a minister, and his brother’s wife taught at Howard. You know, Ms.

Wilson taught over at Howard, Ophia and Olivette’s mother. And Ophia and Olivette had the prettiest cottage over on the west side. Really, it was really—that was one beautiful place. I stayed a few nights. Like, with Ophia I stayed over. We





were very friendly, until we got tied up with Clarence Fizz. He was nephew, and I didn’t like country fellows. And he was out of Tampa. He had been in Tampa with his people, and he could, you know, do the strut. They [takes a stance and imitates strutting]. They didn’t want to feel—they country fellows didn’t have the strut. [Laughter] So, anyway, now, at Dr. Wilson’s office, they had this big society wedding. And Dr. Wilson’s home, and I’m going to tell you about those homes, they were all cluttered there. Dr. Wilson’s home. But, before that, let’s get on the other side of the street, and that’s where, right as we were in front of, at Caldonia Smith’s, across the street is beginning, the biggest business was Cotton Cleaners. That’s the Cottons. And they outstanding, these are all outstanding business entrepreneurs in the town. All of them were worth pretty good money.

And I guess even today, because the Cottons are still around. They’re still moving around. And so their business was on the corner. Then—oh, I didn’t tell you about the downstairs businesses. Then, the barbershop under Dr. Jones, and—oh! The shoe repair! Herman Dose, because he developed the boot thing where you put your foot on. I don’t think I put that name on here so I’d remember that. Herman Dose, they were from that family. All you had to do was call one of those family names like that. And then, the Dankillers was also the detective, and ran the poolroom. That was next. And then, Ms. Merrill's restaurant. That was next. And that ended the businesses right there. Then, next door to that, with just a driveway or something, was Mrs. Commons. Blanche, her first name was Blanche. Her husband drove one of the cabs down at the station. All the cabs at the station were run by the Colored men. They all—they, Mr. Goldwire, Mr.





Cummings—. I don’t remember all the names, but they were all Black men. And Mr. Goldwire got, he was rushing Ms. Gary—and that’s an outstanding name, the Garys had all this property from big-name people. Homer Gary and all of those. I know some of them, you’ve heard the names of them. The Gary family was outstanding. Mrs. Gary had one of them sick. And she had gotten Mr. Goldwire to take her home. And they got killed, the train hit them at, you know, that railroad crossing there. They both were killed when she was trying to get home with the medicine for her sick child. Mrs. Gary. That’s how she—and then her daughter, one of her daughters, married Dan Killins, you know, and they opened the restaurant under Dr. Jones when he moved across the street upstairs. Louise and Dan Killins had that restaurant over there. And also, you know, Ms. Croker’s daughter, with the sodas and stuff? They were down under there, too. And, of course, don’t let us forget: Crompton, the tailor, was over on that side before you get to the Cottons. Because he had that creek where the alligators, the little alligators were in the creek, ran right in his shop. He sold for my daddy and his brother-in-law. My uncle was moderator and my dad died as president of all the young people for about sixty-some churches, when he died. We buried him out in Fessenden, you know, that campus thing. Because we didn’t have room at the church, we figured. And Ms. Shaw and all them said we’d go to the school because it would be more convenient. She covered it, and like that. Now, Ms.

Cummings, Blanche, and her husband, he would get his calls, and a lot of his business, done in their little shop. She sold ice cream, and—oh, the best ice cream! And right, like it was a driveway. In back of that block, what they call the





Hampton Block, they had a big, big tree. And the people from the country used to drive their buggies and wagons and things, and they would have feed bags on the horses, so they could eat. And they’d hook up all around. And up on the square, the Whites had their—they had their water troughs and all that. And the hitching posts uptown, on the square. Where we came from, where Charlie Maison in there, and over on—it’s on Silver Springs Boulevard now. Like, where you see the Gazebo and all? That’s where they were. Horse tanks, water tanks for horses and hitching posts. And then, the Coloreds had their teams hooked up behind the Hampton building, because we were still right just two blocks. We didn’t get to Pine, you see. Now, that’s all these businesses. And they had, and Murray's—now, I would get down that far. But her uncle had the barbershop right in there by Cotton and them. As soon as I got where I could call his name and say, “Momma, that's what, and I declare I didn’t go no further!” [Laughter] But that was a beehive of business. Old Ms. Merrill’s restaurant. You see, they were all underneath the doctors up there, and the dance hall. Oh, and they had nice dances. But they didn’t have any disturbance. There was no kind of—all businesses were open until 12 o’clock at night on Saturday. And you can believe there was no fighting or carrying on or anything, it was all beautiful. I used to come down from New York and park my car and sit there so I could see who I knew, and meet everybody right by the Cottons. That’s how safe and how beautiful. Because Dan Killins was the detective, and everything was… we used to say copacetic. And now, the greatest thing happened: the pots began. Oh, Silas Marner used to come down. They had a tent they just put down past Ms.





Cumming, that’s where Silas Marner would be. And I couldn’t, my daddy wouldn’t let me go there. Now, he’d let me go, we could go, we had the theater down by the piano place, down on—that was Ocklawaha then, wasn’t it? And Ms. Boss, that I told you their house was across the street from the brick church? Her husband was coach out at Howard, and she used to be the receptionist for the theater. Now, everybody went up in—that was the Ritz Theater. And they had all the music, silent pictures, and organ music—oh, the music was out of sight! I said, “Papa, please, let me go! I want to hear the organ music.” And he would take me so I could hear the organ. And then, the fellow that played the organ so well, he went to Tampa, and we nearly died because they didn’t have one as good as he was. Oh, he was—I don’t know what his name was, then. But we used to go to the big shows. Tarzan pictures and all used to be at the Ritz, you see. But down at the Colored—I never was down at that theater, but I knew about him because that manager there was dating Sweet Hawkins. And Sweet Hawkins lived with Momma. And Momma said she was just too grown to be—she didn’t want to be taking care of her, or having her live—and having me get such ideas or something. Because she was too far advanced or something. And she made her go home. [Laughter] Anyway, now, on Saturday night, it opened until twelve. They had wash pots that they fried the fish in. Oh, was it ever good! They had small mullet or small fish, so you had like a half of the fish. And they put one slice of bread, and that half, and mustard, for twenty-five cents. And oh, they had fish pots as far as you can see. And you know, the McCants, I thought of Grandma McCants and all, was before they got to your house. Now, you’re





getting on down to down her way, and my cousin, Dr. Rashay Williams, who left when they burned the cross on his place, he cut out and went to Tampa. But he was just as rich in Tampa as he was here. But L.R., Sr., was like, he used to stand up and say, “You burn me and I’ll burn you.” He didn’t back up. “I’ll tell you now, you burn me and I’ll burn you.” And that’s what I’ll do. I’ll stand you, I’ll stand your ground. And you can stand mine. If you can stand me, I can stand you.

That’s the way that goes. And you don’t give anything, you just let me have some of what we get. Nobody can say—no, you’re not giving me a doggone thing. I’m making you give me what, a part of what we have. That’s mine. That’s a part of me. So, don’t think you’re giving it to me. Now, you’re going down, and you had Buzz Parker. You know, he had a place on down there, because Roy was in my category, he—Buzz was older, older than I was. So now, all the Gadsdens, their home was, see, in Moving Pine. And Dr. Wilson’s home was just past that. And these were big, beautiful homes. Gadsden, they had stained windows and all like that. Right by where the funeral home is now, Gadsden’s place was somewhere along there. And on the other side of the street was Berlac and Lucan Reichert. The Reicherts, John and Luke. You know one of those Reicherts had his arm off. He had one arm. One-armed Reichert. They had their homes there. And you know, Berlac was your first mail carrier. The mail traveled from Miami to Jacksonville, and was delivered on the train. We had the grab bag at Fessenden, and it dropped off the mail in Ocala, and on up Reddick and all into Jacksonville. And Berlac used to be on that, I think he was with the mail. And his daughter became the society column—you know, Thelma Berlac married James Boozer





from Fessenden, he went to Fessenden with me. And James Boozer look like you look. [Indicating Ryan Morini] That’s the truth. [Laughter] He was really—he was our friend, our dear friend. And he married Thelma Berlac. And her name was Thelma Berlac Boozer. And see, the Berlac home was there with the Reicherts. Luke, and John Reichert, I think the other one’s—Luke was the one with the one arm. And then, a huge home was a two-story home, when that Pine came down. And see, when the road came through, it took—and he had some rooms upstairs, his back rooms. That’s the only hospital we had at that time.

Because you couldn’t go to Monroe. At that time, Monroe was just a wooden building. And then, when they built the concrete building, that was the White part, and the Colored part was the wooden part. And my mother was in that wooden part, and she was dying, really. I got down from New York and she was dying.

And we pulled her, Cunningham’s ambulance in there and took her out of there, and brought her home, put her in her own bed. And she died there. She died on 22nd, that was 22nd Street then, where we lived there. My sister had built that new home on 22nd, and my mother died there. Because my sister moved in that place in [19]48, I can remember that very well. Because I came down from New York with my first brand-new car, and I had one that you could let the thing down to sleep in. In fact, I used it in Fort Lauderdale until the gallinippers found out I didn’t have the screens. We made the bed, and it was so nice having a good time.

Because we couldn’t fit in the trailer. My sister, though, was building her home, and they were in the palmettos, and she had a trailer. And my sister could fit in with them, but we couldn’t. Thank God we had a bed in the car. But them





gallinippers found out we were there about sometime, and I go, “Oh my God! Either we die of the heat, or no screen,” and big mosquitos and gallinippers. So now, we’re getting on out Broadway, see. Her home was on the right there, the fitness, and Dr. Williams and those on the left. I would play hide-and-go-seek in Doc’s house because the men—his sister and my mother used to be visiting, and one became an undertaker and one the doctor. And I believe Chaffee might still be living, but we, we got mad at Chaffee because he blew thirty-five thousand when he went in with somebody else, with the undertaker, instead of having his own. Because his mother had him spoiled. He blew it. I said, “You’re nothing but a zoot-suiter! You are terrible!” [Laughter] And, so, we sort of ostracized him. But Doc, Dr. Rishay, Jr., was beautiful. He came to visit me in the homestead and all. And Doc had a big party at my house. He said—because I could park all those cars that was on the corner, and I think I had fifty, we counted after and I had entertained fifty. And you know who engineered my pie table? Because I could make good pies. My sister made the cakes, but I could make good pies.

Was, what’s her name, Alvin Powell’s wife. She was a real good friend of ours. Because we didn’t like Hazel. We banned her, and so we had a thing going.

Anyway, now, we get on out to the fairgrounds, and, see, it was all—there was parts would be, if you had your house and you put your part out there, on the street level, the lights were there, you’re cooking fish. And twenty-five cents, one slice of bread. No topping on it, your fish. And the mustard. Put it in the buns, and they were good. Ooh, ooh, ooh, it was so good! Confessor’s. We could afford that. So, we went on down until you got to Papa’s church all the way out. The





airport used to be on that road, too, because Papa used to take me, and they would take you out for five dollars at that time. Taylor Field. It used to be over there. And it used to have that glass building. Do you remember that glass building? Ah, yeah! And, see, I used to burn that street up. Willie C. Harrison lived over there. And Momma said, [yelling] “I said, don’t you leave—if you going to be at Willie C.’s house, don’t you leave there!” Might as well tell us to leave, because we were strutting down Broadway. [Laughter] And the park had even horseracing, but no betting. But they had horseracing. And that’s the first time I had a taste of writing. I wrote a little excerpt, like a little short story, and put it on exhibit. And I never will forget, I was so heartbroken, because I won a red ribbon instead of a blue because I misspelled “A Sunny Day’s Adventure.” One N, and there are two Ns. [Laughter] And I got a red ribbon instead of a blue. And I never forgot that. I had a pretty good little story of a summer day’s adventure and whatever. But they used to have the fairgrounds and the exhibit area, and the horse racing, and all the candy things, and the balloons, and all. Oh, I can’t think of, Leslie Ugham’s grandfather’s name. He was teller at the bank. And you know, he was really fair. I don’t know, you might not have been born before he died. He used to sit on his porch out there, with the big back towel over the chair outside there, you know? That's Leslie Ugham’s grandfather. Teller of the bank. And I lost his name. Now, I’ll read a little bit of what I—yeah, Dr. Wilson’s office upstairs, and Hampton’s—I’ve taken you along so you can see it as I saw it— Square. That was the Hampton dance hall. Downstairs. That was Lowe’s. It’s a butcher. Lowe’s was the meat market off of Magnolia. That repair, that shoe





repair, was—Irma knows that daddy’s name, I can’t, it was not … family-run shoe repair. Irma Yuges’ family. And the poolroom, run by Dan Killings. Merrill's restaurant, next door. John and Blanche Cummings, ice cream and snacks. And he operated the cabin at the cab business. All cabs at the station, Colored.

Goldwire, Summers, Cummings. Then, Dinya Brown with that, that was the misfigured wedding. And, you know, Jessie—Jessie was his, she was like, helper or aide for her uncle, Dr. Wilson. And Ophelia and I saw a beautiful gown laid out in Dr. Wilson’s house, and guess what? That night, they knew that that—what’s that man’s name? He was in the… Dee Brown, she was with Dee Brown. But he’d broken his leg or something like that. And they never had the society wedding. She married a—not Dawkins. No, not Charles. He lived in front of Cousin Corrine on Allred Street. She married that fellow. Finally married him. No big society wedding, because that’s what happened then. That was scandal! [Laughter] Lola Fulana’s offspring, Ms. Ponder—that’s the publisher of my books. Now, the Fulanas were a great family. A big family. Ben Vereen—the Vereen family. And I said Leslie Ugham's, her grandfather, the teller of the bank. And he worked at the Gadsdens' department store. Johnson managed, and he dated Sweet Hawkins, and so forth. A tent. Oh, they set up a tent on Broadway where they used to show, a silent screens minstrel show used to be there. Papa wouldn’t let me go. But they would tell me about it. One time, they were telling me, and he was reviewing Sunday school, and he stopped talking. I thought, “Oh, God! What happened now?” He was in the pulpit. And I was just busy talking about silent screen. And Muddy Water, they would turn to you, ooh! He'd shush





him up. He said, “When Ms. Brown gets through with the conversation, we will continue the review of the Sunday school.” [Laughter] I almost died. Because I said, if that wasn’t some—oh! Do you remember hearing about Charlie Maison's nightclub, and his tragedy? He had this, you know, his nightclub was located, like, where the Cullins’ and all, back in there, like. And see, my dad’s head deacon, with that big house on the hill out on Broadway. You heard, I think she was the one that sent him up to rest. Oh, well. Some things happened in here.

Let’s see, what else, living on Broadway. Buster Parker, then Gadsden, Hughes. Oh, Hughes and Chestnut had a beautiful place. They had a playground in the back. And I used to be in there half the day. Or anyway, my mother wrote for the Hughes and Chestnut Barrico, she was one of the agents, and they used to be meeting, and we would headquarters there a lot. And between Papa out after church and my mother at the funeral home, my life was between the church and the thing. I have ridden in a hearse so many times, when I go riding in it the last time, I’ll have been in it many times. [Laughter] And so then, let me see what else they’ve got. But I’ll tell you one thing: the people, they sold out. They had money. They became land-rich. But my mother and my dad both achieved. Well, they were—see, my mother didn’t go past the, I think, the eighth grade. But she was pure-bred German. She was, see, a slaveholder’s—see, like, their house slaves, they talk about. You know, they were like butlers. And on both sides of my family, they must have been the butlers of them, because they inherited the plantations. The one out here, 240 acres, with the big house, we called it the big house. And a big hall with rooms on either side of it. I know my aunt had one in Williston. It





had an upstairs, and you could go around the rooms for—because we was, Ci’s and I used to have to clean the rooms, and we used to fight because he’d say, “You see, you’ve got good hair, but the wrong end grew out.” And he had beautiful hair, and we’d fight. [Laughter] Because I’m all mixed up, and it comes out all kind of ways! Now, I have a lot in here you can read about, because I don’t sell those books anymore. So, whoever wants, you want one or something, you can have it. I have no more of Down Memory Lane, because we’re not going to publish any more of those. And I must go and be sure that they have this right at Howard, because I believe they have a half-finished thing. Because I don’t think they—you know, the last part retiring them in, I think she left, her daughter was helping her type. And she published some. That one’s incomplete, and I got to take that and be sure that Howard has that, because they got the three things that—Down Memory Lane, this. Now, Down Memory Lane was okayed in Washington, in this copyright. You know, the Library of Congress. And I bet I sold about six hundred, and they all over the country. When I flew, when I was on buses, traveling by car, wherever, and I could sell them, I sold them. And Ponder and I published—I know we published three times or four times, a hundred each time. And then, sometimes fifty. And now, we want—I wouldn’t have us get the press up for under twenty-five after that, you know, because it doesn’t pay. And I wrote this, and I got to the forest, and they made me president of the state. And I was six years president of the state of Florida for, you know, Federated Women. And I couldn’t—because you have to go into seclusion for hours and hours, and put it together. And the spelling must be correct, the punctuation, and everything.





See, I had thirteen years of Fessenden. When I came out, I could have taught anywhere. I taught craft and, I mean, we were really set. Because we had a curriculum like you never saw. We had aesthetic dancing. We opened in the morning with prayer and worship. Non-partisan, I mean, no special religion. But a respect for our Creator or whatever, to start school like that. And we used to have the old primary building, the high school building, and then they, my class was the first to march in the finished building. That’s the only original building out there now. Chapman Hall. Chapman Hall is there, and that’s the only original Fessenden building standing.

	F:	Now, you know they want to close it up and sell it.



	LM:	And you know, I fought with them, and I’ll fight with them again about it!



	F:	We need to stay on that fight, because that’s historic and we need to keep it. LM:	I said that they’d better not. I said, “Lord—

	F:	It’s back up. It’s back up again.



	LM:	Again! And they were supposed—I says, “As long as I have breath in my body, the grass is going to be green, and kids are going to walk on that campus, Black and White! I dare you to do anything with it!”

	F:	They trying to sneak it by. It’s back up. LM:	And I’ll be fighting.

	F:	And Howard Academy. W:	Howard Academy also.

	LM:	And I will be fighting! They got some nerve. I will be fighting, y’all. And I’m telling you. And I don’t play! I call the shots like I see them. You know I do.





	W:	Mmhm!



	LM:	See, in Williston, now, I can tell you. I went to sell a piece of property up there. And the fellow was from the—was a Jewish fellow, fine fellow, a very nice guy— from Tamiami Trail. And he bought a piece of property for me. And we went in the courthouse or somewhere where they did some paperwork, and they called my grandmother’s name. And they said, “Oh, she doesn’t know.” I said, “Now don’t say that, I do know.” I said, “Because my grandfather was shot dead with six Black kids that she loved and raised, and married another Black man. Don’t tell me!” I said, “Yes, I know.” And then I had an uncle, they ran over him and laughed. And, you know, “We don’t hate. We don’t hate nobody!” I love everybody, because my grandmother loved me. And I know she loved me. So, you know. She just, she just loved Black men, that’s all. Well, so what? What are you going to do? You lose your life, so, you lose it. You going to lose it anyway. But that, I’ve got to be sure that they have that full—and that one I can spare them to have. I must—and they trying to close that, too!

	F:	Yes, ma’am.



	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	F:	So, you’ve got three titles. This is During My Tenure, this is Walk Among the Pines, and the other one was Memory Lane?

	LM:	Down Memory Lane. F:	Down Memory Lane.





	LM:	Now, Down Memory Lane is really authentic, because I had to send it in to Washington, and the Library helped me with it—I studied, oh, I worked hard on all those things.

	F:	Is that for the first one you published?



	LM:	Yeah, Down Memory Lane. And that is a copyright. Because if you use that, you’re going to pay me.

	F:	Okay.



	LM:	And the other, you know, was—



	F:	So, does Howard have Down Memory Lane also? LM:	Yeah, Howard Academy, it’s under glass down there. F:	Oh, okay.

	LM:	And then, you know, they inducted me—and I saw the judge the other day, we was shopping together, I—

	F:	I was there at the—we were at the ceremony.



LM:  Yeah. Well, she was in the, at the, again, where were we at the other day—at Wal-Mart. [Laughter] We run into each other all the time, because I sat by her. You know, that was my trophy thing over there, on the table.

RM:  Oh, okay.



LM:  You can pick it up if you will. You can just go, it’s right there, with my name in front.

RM:  This one here?



	LM:	Uh-huh, yes. That one. F:	Read what it says.





	RM:	So, it says: “Marion County Black Archives Induction Ceremony, awarded to Lois



	B. Miller, February 21, 2014, H.A.C.C.” Howard Academy— W:	Community Center.

	RM:	Okay.



	F:	A very nice ceremony. LM:	It was, wasn’t it?

	W:	Yes.



	F:	And you gave a good speech. [Laughter] LM:	Oh, yeah. You think so?

	W:	Always!



	LM:	I run my mouth! [Laughter] But I wanted to take you, I wanted to give you—that is an imprint in my brand. I gave it to you like I had it. If I write it, I can’t explain it, because when I was giving it to you, I could see everybody as they looked at that time. And saw them.

	F:	You have a visual memory, a picture.



	LM:	Yeah, of it. And I wanted to take you on that, since you were gullible enough to— [Laughter]

	F:	A lot of it, I could see. I really remember the shoe guy, the shoe repair. LM:	Uh-huh. What’s the name?

	F:	I can’t recall his name, but it was like a narrow hallway. W:	Mmhm.

	F:	And he could keep those shoes going— LM:	And he, he—





	F:	—put the sole back on—



	LM:	He made that step thing where you put your foot up. F:	Mmhm.

	W:	Mmhm.



	LM:	I mean, he, what you call it? W:	Latson? Was it Latson?

	F:	Ladsen?



	LM:	Uh-uh. It was…



	F:	We’re going to check out the Academy one day. That’s on the list. We just haven't made an appointment.

	LM:	Oh, yeah. Well, my books are in there, all that. And I, as I say, I got to check.



Because this, I want to be sure it’s in—because the daughter was, you know, her daughter died. And the daughter was typing, and she was rushing to try to get it ready for me because the state meet was at the hotel down there. And I grabbed a box of books and went. And when I found out, half the entire notes weren’t in there, and I thought, “Oh my God, look at what I’m starting!” And I gave them out. Because with that, I charged them two dollars for the printing with this one. I said, “That’s the complete thing that you’re going to help me pay for the printing.” And that was—that’s the complete. Because if you see there, you’ll see who helped me there, with Ty and Ms. Rich and all of them, you know, whatever. But this, I came to the break in the forest, and ran a blank. I could not go, because I had too much correspondence and things on my mind, I couldn’t think. And I had to finish up with part, like, autobiography. But I would’ve followed through with a lot





more, but it still wouldn’t have been the dew on the grass and all, because I don’t waste—I’m a factual writer. I don’t waste time on, 'the birds was singing, and the flowers were blooming, and the dew was on the grass as we went down the road.; Mmhm. [Laughter] They’re not going to get that from me. You going to get, ‘Honey, it was like this. And it was like that.’

	F:	So, the organization, the Florida Association of Women’s club is still— LM:	Still active.

	F:	Still active.



	LM:	Only thing, this year—I had a talk with Mizell Friday—and they have the Lois B. Miller club here, that … you know who went crazy when that, you know… You know Lyndon? And so, you know what we’re going to have—that comes off the fourth Saturday in June? I don’t think I’m even going to go. I talked with the president, and she did six years, and we had to put her back in the saver, and you know, she’s on chemo right now, and doing good. Doing pretty good. And I said, “Child, you’re going to have to try to swing for about two years anyway, try to hold you that so we can get this stuff straightened out, if we can.” But I think what I can do here, seeing that we’re represented and all that, will be more beneficial than me trying to go. Because I can’t even walk without this. And you see, I have that. When I’m over there, playing solitaire and trying to get off the couch, that protects me there. And the animals tell me what’s going on. He has to sit there, he oversees. [Laughter] And the flowers bloom all year long, because I I’ll go to one and I’ll say, “Well, what on earth is the matter? Why? Why are you not blooming? Whatever I got to do?” And I feed it some more. And you can see





I—they gave me that orchid for my birthday. And look it, it’s just lost a few blossoms.

	F:	It’s beautiful!



	LM:	You’d think it’s artificial. But that’s real. And they tell you how to treat it. I think I have the directions here.

	W:	I haven’t tried to keep one of those yet. But that’s really good shape, beautiful.



	LM:	And, so this is all my family. And when I go away, I used to fly and leave them all with the curtain open enough that they have sunshine. My neighbors now going to go back to Ohio for about three months. The ones next door, they’re very nice people. And, oh, that place is beautiful. They did a beautiful job of it. Redid the whole thing. I said, “Oh, that kind of money!” Yes, it’s beautiful, though. But they’re going to be going—I guess they’re in the process of leaving, because some of the moves they’re making … they had the two cars, they got rid of one. They’ve got the van and about just what they need. But that’ll be like that until they get back. So, now, if you would like that, you know, you can have—see, I used sell them, but I won’t sell them. I can’t be selling no books. I don’t do that. If you want one, you have it. Whatever. Because a lot of them, a history of Fessenden—oh yeah! The history of Fessenden. Y’all help me fight. Because I’m not going to let them people take Fessenden like that. We’ll fight ‘em! I’ll tell you, we’ll go to Tallahassee! I commanded a bus. Corrine’s manager had all this stuff right here on that table, and I commanded the bus from Ocala. I had a pickup in Gainesville, and a pickup in Lake City. And that bus was out of Marion County.

And Jacksonville had a couple buses. And my people, when we got to





Tallahassee, I stood outside, and they lined up, and got in front of the governor’s place, and they had to be under special, and take your orders because you don’t make a move unless I get the message. And you move there. Now, Corrine’s still in there, isn’t she? And they will have—I can’t go out there and fight it like I could fight it then. Because I could commandeer that bus. And Marie wanted to—“I’m going to sit up front.” I said, “You’re going to save front seats for Gainesville and Lake City. That. Is. Facts. Now, you get in the back, because that’s what the front’s for!” [Laughter] I had a pickup in Lake City, and sure enough, I got to be friends with her. Because she had broken her leg, and she had the very first seat there. I said, “Where do you think you’re coming from? All of Ocala is going to have all the front seats, and Gainesville and Lake City, what am I going to say to them? No way, Brother Jay! Hit the hay!” [Laughter] You got to be nice. Oh, I'll be very friendly with you, very friendly. But boy, will I tell you what’s uptown! I just tell you the truth, that’s all. What am I going to do? Tell you the truth. I love everybody God put on this earth. Some of them are fools. I don’t know what happened. But they have to be taught to hate. They don’t come here hating!

	W:	You’re absolutely right. That is true.



	LM:	You see my kids, my one flew down just for my birthday. There are two pictures, three pictures up there, that my immediate family—my youngest grandson, he flew into Orlando, picked up his car, came into the hotel, and he was here at 12:00 on Saturday. And my birthday was that Sunday. And then, they didn’t get up so early, because he got the baby and all, but he got to my church. He knew he’d better get there. He got there before service was out. [Laughter]





	F:	And where’s your church?



	LM:	Out in old country, out by Fessenden. F:	Are you still at Watula?

	LM:	I grew up between Watula and Union mostly, because Momma would have us— Papa, in those days, had pastored two Sundays, preaching, you know. And we were first and third at Watula, and second and fourth at Union. And Momma named it Progressive Union, because we built that new church, and that church is still going, it’s beautiful, you know.

	W:	That’s right. That’s not far from Fessenden, is it? LM:	Yeah, right there.

	W:	Yeah.



	LM:	Yeah. Papa’s funeral there.



	W:	Right down the road, over the railroad track. F:	Yeah. I’ve been there.

	LM:	When you go down to the railroad, then you’ll see Watula. F:	I’ve been to both churches.

	LM:	But I bet you they’d better leave Fessenden alone. You talk about getting my ire up—

	F:	I’ve got to get an update. Someone was just telling me about, they’re again raising up the idea of selling it and closing it. And they’re trying to keep it quiet.

	LM:	Yeah, because it’ll raise hell!



	W:	They’re doing the same thing at Howard, in Howard Academy.





	LM:	Yeah, we’ll raise hell. Because those two places should not be taken away from here. No way, Brother Jay.

	W:	Now, they’re both historic sites. LM:	You have to fight it.

	W:	Officially. As I know it, officially, they are— F:	But something about cost-effective.

	W:	Yeah, they talking about that, too. F:	Yeah, is it cost-effective…

	LM:	I’ll cost them effection! [Laughter] W:	Okay! I believe you!

LM:  I told them. And when Cotton spoke, I said, “A-men!” and you don’t do that at a public meeting. “A-men, Brother Jay! Amen!” They say, “she said ‘amen,’” and I said I meant it, too.

	F:	Well, you know, because the population of elementary school kids are not in the neighborhood for school, then that—Howard Academy is in the neighborhood. But the neighborhood kids are elsewhere, because our neighborhood schools are magnet schools, and so they don’t—they’re not in a neighborhood to participate in the neighborhood activities. So, you have to try and get them at some other time for activities because, you know, we would always come to Howard, and Madison Street. But kids don’t come to those schools anymore, because you’re not zoned for Madison Street.

	W:	They're not available to them.



	F:	They’re not available to the community!





	W:	They have to apply. F:	You have to apply.

	W:	They will never get the opportunity, because they’re doing it for desegregation.



	LM:	We’re going to have to be very, very keyed to it, because Jenkins is in the chair now as Fessenden alumni, and we have to fight this thing. Because we can’t just sit and let it happen. You don’t do that.

	F:	We have to utilize the facilities, and we need to have programs that will, you know, pull us back. We need to utilize the facility.

	LM:	You ought to see something.



	F:	We definitely need some leadership before those buildings go. W:	Yeah, we can’t let that happen.

	LM:	What—where did I have that package with the pictures? W:	It’s right here.

	LM:	Oh, right here? Yeah, pictures. We were going to have a ball over there. Y’all can look, and as you look I’ll be telling you what you’re seeing. Real quick-like. You just kind of, if you open up—this is a lady, my cousin’s aunt, and we corresponded, and that’s about her death. Bennie, B.F.’s son out in Oklahoma— out in the Colorado. And that’s his aunt, Alberta. Now, that’s the glass-bottom boats. You see me on there?

	F:	Unh-uh, where are you?



	LM:	I’m on there. I’m right—right here. F:	Oh, okay.







LM:

Uh-huh. If you just turn it, and I can see, I’ll tell you what’s what, what’s



happening.

F:

Now, I’m going to have to excuse myself. My son is leaving for Orlando—

W:

I need you to show us where you are there.

LM:

Oh, right here.

RM:

Yeah, this is you here?

LM:

Right there.

RM:

Yep.

W:

Ah, okay.

F:

Okay, guys.

LM:

I’ve got my little one there, she’s in there. But I’ve got them all jumbled. I’ll just



have to tell you what they are.

F:

So, I’m going to excuse myself.

RM:

Okay.

LM:

That’s a thank you from a couple that married. I had to throw that in, you know.

F:

Ms. Miller, my son is leaving for Orlando. So, I’m going to excuse myself.

LM:

Oh, all right. Bless you.

F:

Thank you, so much.

LM:

Are you traveling with her?

F:

No, we’re all traveling separately.

W:

Separately.

LM:

Oh, all of you, I see.

F:

I directed him here.





	LM:	Oh, yeah? F:	Yes, ma’am.

	LM:	Well, thank you!



	F:	So, God bless you.



	LM:	And it’s just a joy having you. Wouldn’t you like a drink or something?



	F:	No, ma’am. No, ma’am, I wouldn’t. But thank you, I appreciate it. I’m just going to give you a hug. And I’m going to see you again soon. Because we’ve got to follow up. This is the beginning.

	RM:	Oh, yeah.



	LM:	Because this is ours! F:	Yes, ma’am.

	LM:	Let me see. My little one is there. W:	As a baby?

	LM:	When she’s five years old, you know. Paradise Park. Uh-huh. Did you—you didn’t see her yet, right? Is she—she’s at Paradise Park, and five years old. I came down from New York.

F:  And we’re going to schedule a second meeting for individual interviews with you, L.C., and Deacon Menchan. So, you have to make a date. So, I’ll call you maybe tomorrow or later this evening so I can write a date.

	W:	That’ll be fine.



	F:	Okay.



	[Various exchanges about RF leaving] W:	Are these your babies?





	LM:	Let’s see who this is. [Laughter] I have to see who it is, myself. Oh, I know! That’s B.F.’s son, the doctor. You know, that’s his children.

	F:	Am I locked in, Ms. Miller?



	LM:	Oh, yes! [Laughter] Upside-down. And just leave it in the door, upside-down. F:	Okay.

	W:	Now, I’m going to tell you, Howard Academy has some stuff that you could probably help us identify. You know, some of the photos.

	F:	I told him we’d take him there so we could set up a meet. A tour.



	W:	Okay. We got all the football teams, coaching, balls, all kind of stuff. Yeah. And I’m not—a lot of people I remember, but some of them are lost.

	LM:	Yeah. You didn’t see my little one yet. I know she’s in that bunch. It’s a small picture, but it’s got her name on it, and I think back in 1961 or something. And she’s under the sign.

	W:	Oh, Fessenden?



	LM:	No, she’s at Paradise Park.



	W:	Oh, okay. Now, that was from Paradise Park, up front. LM:	Yeah, she’s at Paradise Park.

	W:	Okay. That might be in this. Because these were the first ones, right here. RM:	The first group? That might have been, yeah.

	LM:	I got them all junked in. And I took them out of—oh, I got dozens and dozens and more. Dozens. But trying to pick out—

	W:	I have some pictures that I need you to identify at my house. But my husband… Sam has put—we’re packing stuff, and he has put my photo album with all of the





older people—see, I can go all the way back to, say, probably the early [19]50s. Okay? Because I was still a kid, and I knew who was what. Like, I was born in [19]48, I’m 66. So I can—these names you’re calling, I’m nodding my head because these are people that my parents talked about.

	LM:	Yeah, talked about.



	W:	My mom was born in 1920, my dad in 1918, I think. So, you got John McCray, Sara Jane McCray, and all those people. See, I never knew my grandparents.

	LM:	Orien McCantz, you know— W:	Orien McCantz—

	LM:	—yes, his grandmamma lived right on Broadway there near Buster Parker’s place.

	W:	Buster Parker.



	LM:	Uh-huh.



	W:	That’s another name.



	LM:	Right in there, and his sister—you know, see, I knew them well. Orien was, he was a little bit older, but all that was—

	W:	Is he—Orien is a McCants?



	LM:	Uh-huh. Orien McCants, and—Orien Colker and Orien McCants. And the Mills, I forgot to tell you about the Mills, you know?

	W:	See, I just know I—some of them I remember—



	LM:	Well, see, that was from Mount Moriah. Annie Mills and John Mills and all. John used to travel like me. [Laughter]

	W:	What church—you belonged to the church downtown, Mount Zion?





	LM:	No, no. I belong—I will always belong to—



	W:	Over there by Ms. Boss and those. But you already, okay—



	LM:	I just knew of them, and knew them well. Yeah. You see, Dr. Jones and his wife were very friendly with us. In fact, when Momma died, they just took us over, like. But my baby is in there somewhere. Oh, she’s in there, she’s in the paper now!

She just died! You know who that is? That’s Helen Jones’s—that’s Willamette.



	W:	Ms. Burns, my third grade teacher! LM:	Yeah, Wilhelmina’s—

	W:	Alfreda Burns.



	LM:	Yeah, she’s in the paper.



	W:	Now, wait a minute. They knew my mom, they were all graduates of Howard Academy class of 1936.

	LM:	And she just passed now. See, they going to have a funeral this Saturday. W:	They were all classmates. My aunt, my—

	LM:	And they going to have her wake at Cunningham’s on Friday night.



	W:	Yeah. And I’m missing it all because I have to leave. This is, she was my third grade teacher.

	LM:	Yeah, Alfreda. Oh, she was, she and Helen were very close. You know, Thel was very close to Helen, because she helped Helen with the piano. But my sister handled the organ. She could play Handel’s Messiah, it has seven sharps. She said he had to be drunk when he wrote it. [Laughter] Seven sharps. But she played it down here at the Cascades. And she helped Helen stay on the piano,





but she had the organ. But she could, she played up to five positions. She studied organ—and Connie Yoll would guide us good.

	W:	Now, who is this you’re talking about? LM:	Huh?

	W:	You said Thelma? LM:	My sister Thelma.

	W:	Your sister Thelma. Okay. Got you.



	LM:	Yeah, my sister Thelma helped Helen—Alfreda’s sister, Helen—with the piano. And she handled the organ, because she played that big organ down in—now that’s the church I belonged to down south. Mount Olive, down there.

	W:	Oh, Mount Olive.



	LM:	Yeah, that’s the biggest church on the coast now. W:	Okay, and that is—

	LM:	I sang in the choir down there. And you know, all those plaques came out about all of it.

	W:	Okay.



LM:  And I designed the flag one. I only had one person in my class to put that flag together. I defy anybody to put it together. I got thirteen original, and your fifty states. I had to get them in with these.

RM:  I can understand that. [Laughter]



	RM:	Is it okay if I take a picture of those plaques? LM:	Oh, yes.

RM:  Okay.





	LM:	You can.



	RM:	You don’t mind.



	LM:	No, I don’t. Most of those—not all of them, one is from the Omega Phi Psi. And this one over here is Alpha Kappa, I know that. That one. But most—see, I used to act, we put on plays in Mount Olive. We put on many plays. You know who could remember their lines better than anybody was Dr. Hampton, the biggest surgeon we had down there. Boy, he could—

	W:	Okay!



	LM:	I said, “Child, you can remember them lines!” And we’d be cued, you know. So, when you forget your lines and stuff. But most of those came out of Mount Olive. And then I have the Frank G. Pinkston one is in Town Hall. And my church is faded.

	W:	That’s at Mount Olive, the church? LM:	No, that’s in New York.

	W:	Oh! Okay.



	LM:	Yeah, that’s at Union Baptist in Hempstead. But it faded. It used to be so pretty, and it faded. Now, down over there—turn on this light, and it’ll help. Go right there. Now, turn that light on. Yeah.

	RM:	Okay. Oh, yeah.



	LM:	Now, you can—see, my New York picture faded. Now, the picture under it is me and my husband before we got married. That’s the little car.

	[Interlude about the bathroom] RM:	Wow, that’s—





	LM:	Yeah, that’s back in about 1938, something like that. RM:	And that was taken here in Ocala?

	LM:	No, Long Island. RM:	Oh, Long Island!

	LM:	Long Island, New York. And that picture is my church in New York. And I’m in the choir. You don’t see me—I have my choir’s picture in my room. But that Frank G. Pinkston, that’s the one down in City Hall. See, on the left. There, that one. Up top. Yeah, Frank G. Pinkston. The NAACP awarded me that at one banquet.

	RM:	Wow. How long were you in the NAACP?



	LM:	Oh, I did a whole year for them, I was receptionist for them while Barney Bank had his branch in there. They would not have their branch in the NAACP office without having an official from the NAACP. And Jenkins put me in there to—and I used to, if the case was too tough, I’d give him a ring. He was over the correctional institution, up at—

	W:	Uh-huh, SCR.



	LM:	I spoke up there a couple of times. And I would buzz him and refer to him. But I used to handle some of them myself. You know, if they weren’t too tough. “Somebody did this the other day,” whatever, whatever, whatever. But I did that for a year. You know what made me mad with them? Went down to Leesburg, and when I knew anything, like the child had the check from the NAACP and the motel wouldn’t take it, and they took my check, and she got ready for the banquet and everything, and they had that luncheon the next day. And I went down to the little sandwich stop down there and cried on the way, and I said, “When I get





back, I’ll fix all of them.” Walked the heck out. I said, “Now, you know when I’m giving my services and all. You don’t plan a banquet setup, and I’ve got to go and—I put up my charge for the thing, and put up my charge and get back in here, nineteen dollars at a filling station, and I’ve got seven dollars 7 left, and I ate all—” I cried. They had an old filling station going back. I sat there, I had one dollar left, and I got a candy bar. And I said, “I’ll fix all of them when I get back.” That’s right. You don’t do me like that. Whatever. Oh, you know. The 2 x 4s and all. I said, “Mmhm.” And somebody knew I was kind of upset, and she said, “What can I do for you?” And I said, “Well, I’m just trying to think what I can have,” and she suggested stir-fry. And stir-fry, what a nice little luncheon. But I couldn’t afford no more than about six dollars. I had seven dollars, and it was

$5.99. I remember every dime of it, because I had laid my charge on the motel. Because they wouldn’t even take the NAACP check! But they took my check.

	And then, all that money coming back, and— W:	Where were you?

	LM:	Leesburg.



	W:	Oh, well. Okay. That takes care of that. [Laughter]



	LM:	Honey, I had some news for them! Because I was serving as head of the women part of it, you know, WINs, the WINs thing? Women in the NAACP? And giving them, and leave my—because I didn't have the air on, but I have an air- conditioning thing here, I’ve got my room and open that, and so, I have to close up the windows and all. I usually use a fan when it’s like this and not too hot. And I said, “Now, they’ve got some nerve.” Unh-uh. And I was right there with those,





with the little dope fellows and all like that. “Momma, what?” I said, “Let me tell you once: if you don’t straighten yourself up—” “Momma, I’m going to do better.” I said, “You ain’t doing better, you’re doing worse.” But I’ll tell you one thing, nobody could touch me. They wouldn’t have let you touch me. Nobody. Now, speaking of diapers, and bottles, you name it—

	W:	May I ask you a Fessenden question? LM:	Mmhm.

	W:	Who was the principal or headmaster during the time that you were there?



	LM:	He was one of the smartest men I could have sat under. Morris, Leonard Morris. He went on to Edward Waters College. He was a Methodist minister. PhD out of, outside of Chicago—oh, wait a minute now. That university just about four miles outside of Chicago. That’s where he came from, Chicago. It’s a big college, and PhD out of there. And he left Fessenden and went to Edward Waters in Jacksonville because he was a Methodist minister. He used to exchange pulpits with Papa. Papa would take the choir from Union, Progressive Union, up to Fessenden and do the service, and Leonard would have the choir from Fessenden come down to Progressive to do some services, you know, every once in a blue moon or something. But they would exchange pulpits. So, Uncle Steve, who was moderator, said that we would have the funeral up there.

Because Momma knows that going up there, when that fight came over the church, you know, and we knew who burnt the church down.

	W:	Oh, my goodness. The other thing that I heard you talk about, that I found very interesting, was you told me at one time about a young man who was determined





to attend Fessenden Academy. And I believe he came from up north. And he came with nothing.

	LM:	Oh! Yeah! You know, Fred Norman. Fred Norman went on to be right—Colt Hopkins. He left there and married the secretary of the school, this lady. He married her, and she was a friend of Colt Hopkins. And Fred went—he was a ranger, and all of that. But that child, they used to borrow pants and wear them. “You wear the pants today, somebody will wear them another time.” [Laughter]

	W:	Did they all graduate?



	LM:	Fred Norman, yeah, I think—he was ahead of me. But he went—Miss, not Miss



Revallion, the other lady, she was a light-skinned lady. But he went with her. She had money, you know. She was teaching, she was secretary. But she was a friend of Colt Hopkins, and they lived on Long Island. And I was on one of the midnight cruises. You know, I told you Tommy Lee married Leslie Cole from quartet there. The Green Pastures. Yeah, I told you that… the singers, you know?

	W:	I don’t.



	LM:	I told you at first, I’ve forgot now.



	W:	I remember Green Pastures, but I was very, very young.



	LM:	And Matthew, who was an outstanding tenor, did the solo for her wedding, you know. Well, see, I used to hang out with Adam Powell’s first wife, you know—not Miriam, I’m thinking of Dr. Hampton now. His first—she was the dancer on the stage, and he would take her to the parsonage, and then he was going uptown or downtown, where Hazel Scott was. And they used to put a hat on Hazel out on





the island because, and the other child, you know, she used to henna her hair all the time. She was a different kind. She'd wear that mink coat with the big collar, and we’d go down and pick up subway at 145th Street.

	W:	You know, I—



	LM:	Isabel! Isabel Powell. W:	From here?

	LM:	Her sister was Washington who played in with the Colored lady that, way back… She played the little girl. They were real White, you know? Like, James looked like her brother, and Isabel always had her head hennaed and all that kind of stuff.

	W:	But I would like to know, how is it that you, when was it that you left Ocala and went to New York?

	LM:	Fessenden. And when I got out, it was in the heart of the Depression. We had no money at all. Churches folded. That summer, I spent the summer of [19]32—like, I finished Fessenden, and Momma had Rita Grace, who lived in St. Petersburg. And she said, “Well, maybe you can find something with Grace.” I went down there, and I used to go with Grace, and she would wash dishes for one of the nightclub women, and she’d pile all them little glasses and dishes and all, and you won’t get but a minimal polishing cost for seven fifty, and like that. And rent was two dollars a month, or two dollars, something like that. And you had an ice pick killing just about every weekend or something, because we lived up in the alley, and it was near the funeral home. And he’d go out with them things,





somebody done stabbed somebody with the ice pick. They had ice pick killings in those days.

	W:	Was your family with you when you went up there? LM:	Yeah, all my family.

	W:	Everybody left.



	LM:	My—not my daddy and momma. They never, and Thelma didn’t come until much later. She moved on up there later, she came because I was there. When I went there, I had seven cousins with different… One was living in Brooklyn, and she had a press. And she was in partnership with her brother. And they had two cabs. And you know, those cabs have medallions. You pay about $35,000 for a medallion with the yellow cab. And they had two on the run. And she had a printing press. That was Mamie. Then, she bought like a mountain thing, up in Vermont. Montpelier. You’d go up a mile off the highway. I went up there. And the porcupines were—she had to have a metal thing around her car. Porcupines stick your tires.

	W:	In New York?



	LM:	No, that was in Vermont. Which was—she lived in New York, she was in Brooklyn. And then Andrew, I could have put my hands on Ike. And Ike, you know, I think Ike didn’t need to shake the closet. Because I could touch his arm—because my cousin worked in a garage on 155th Street, and that’s where the viaduct is. You go into Washington Ice over the viaduct. And the poling grounds was down there. Now, they have apartments, because Dodgers first went to California. Then, the Giants used to be down there. And now, that’s





housing, you know, down under there. And the subway would—I mean, the trolley cars go down and turn around and go back downtown and all. And when I came in, he went in to the poling grounds. And Andrew, who worked in that garage in the day, had me stand over there, when the procession came with Ike, he was in an open car, and see, his arm was over where I was standing out with Aunt Jessie—the garage was back there. And I went and stood, so I could be when the parade would come through. I could have almost touched his arm. And he had really, really tanned.

	W:	And how is it that you decided to come back to Marion County?



	LM:	Oh, I always said I was going to come back home. Best and Company closed, you know, fifteen stores. We went down. AFL-CIO came in. First, the elevators went, our passenger elevators. We had five passenger elevators. You know, I hat-checked all them people like Clair Boothe-Loos and Emma Jean Coker. I was the first person, after they signed in at the desk, next person they deal with was me when I was a relief hat check, not head. Kitty was a head. Kitty had a big home down in South Hampton. But I was able to get a good home in Hempstead. Because we made tips like you never saw. Because we were making tips off of the people, the operators and all. They’d come through, and we’d give that customer a blue gown or something, and they’d come and find out how they should charge them. You know, like, they’d say, “What do you think”—And you know, I used to have—the girl, she was one of the wives of H.M.S. Stevens, you know, that had all the ballpark things you see there, cups H.M.S. She had all kinds of furs. She had the fur stole, the Persian lamb, the full-fledge, and then





they had the Hudson seal, and finest furs you could ever look at. And they get a blue gown. I had a stack of blue gowns, like you had them piled up. It’s got to be fast, you’ve got to think fast—that’s why I talk so much. And you’ve got to be very kind. “Oh, yes, yes,” “Oh, but of—” Ethel Merman, you know, had this poompf thing she used to fix. She only drank two cups of milk. She’d have—one of the girls would be bringing her milk from upstairs, and when the union came in, they put me over all the lunch deal. I used to go upstairs and stack the buggy, the roll- away like they have in the hotels? You stack them with soda, you pay five cents up in the machine, and you sell it for ten, and you sell the sandwich. You pay fifty cents and you charge sixty-five, and like that. And then your tip and everything.

Oh, you had to be fast. I could run columns like a computer. Five, the six is the eleven, the twenty, twenty-five, and all of that. You got to be quick. And got to know what you’re—you gotta keep on task and know what you’re doing. And I was in with the detectives and everything. So, you know, one girl tried to pull the wool over my eyes one time and almost got away with one of my good coats or something like that. And I had the detective stop her down before she got out that store. We were on the eighth floor. And I called a detective. Oh, a lot of them would be in trouble. And made her come back. Because, you know, those people, you keep their check in your pocket, you really don’t let them worry with the check. You hand them three checks. One for the hat, one for the rod—fine suit or fine fur goes on or something—and the packages you’ve got to write, and—you’ve got to be on your toes. And I did that for about nine years, and then the union came in. And when the union came in, Best closed all its stores. See,





the elevators, passenger elevators went in. And they say, “You’re going to have to go in.” So, I didn’t want to go in the union. My husband said, “You better be careful, don’t you run your mouth! I’ll have to come to you, find yourself on that subway thing! You better be careful!” So, I had to keep my mouth shut. So then, they tried to win us over so we wouldn’t go in the union. But they had the pressure on. All the beauty parlor, those passenger elevators brought all our people up and everything. And, oh! We were on a mess. I said, “Lord, I can’t fight it too long.” So, we had to go down to 59th Street to the union meetings near Bloomingdale’s, back over there. I used to pass by where they have the bunnies and all, you know? And the cabs go out. I’d sit on a bench at the union meeting, and my husband said—we had to appear, if you didn’t, you got fired. Go down and stick your head in. And I had to hit Long Island trying to get on. But I had to be very careful. So, I told the salespeople, I was sitting. I went to one the sales lady one day we’re having lunch. She say, “You all went in the union, and we had to close the beauty parlor in November.” About a month and a half or two months before the whole store is blocked by Christmas. And I said, “Honey, you got to go.” I said, “We got to go. Elevators went, and that pushed us in.” I said, “Now, you going to be.” “Oh, no! We going to stay with it because we have good retirement and all!” I said, “Honey, the union’s going to break you. The union’s coming in. Best and Company is going down, because the union’s coming in.” And sure enough, AFL-CIO. I used to have my union pin and so on, and I didn’t keep it up because down here it don’t fare that well. I see they’re trying to unionize now down… But it’s different. It’s not AFL-CIO. We were AFL-CIO. But





they had gotten the forty-hour week for Gimbel’s. And you see, they fought for the forty-hour week. Because we used to never get—you’d have only Sunday off. This way, forty-hour week, you got Sunday, and—they never let us have Saturday off, because that’s always a busy day. But I had Wednesday off, I think, or something like that. You had a weekday off. And we never used to have that. When I first started working, out in Garden City—I was out in Garden City—and out there, I used to even have to take care of the desk and all of that. But I was in uniform. But I was working behind the scene. But my brain was on that desk.

Because those fellows would slip me ten dollars, “Do my thing.” Run it down, you know? Because I could run it down. He knew he was going to get his commission right. And they said, “Oh,” they said, "I don’t want Edna trying to—" she was an Italian girl, but she couldn’t compute like I could. So, I made a lot of money that way. They’d give me, oh, ten dollars. Customers give me money and all like that.

	W:	You know, I always like to talk with you because I learn something new every time, and we’ve been talking forever!

	LM:	Because I’ve been so much bess!



	W:	See, and the good thing about Ms. Miller is, there are very few people—I cannot think of anyone else right now—who has this vast knowledge of so many years.

	LM:	But then, I’m not—they’re not good for you, because they corner their knowledge.



They’re selfish, and if you hold tight, you don’t open up, nothing comes in, and nothing goes out, and nothing comes in. Because I’m open, my life is an open book.

W:   There is no one else. That’s what’s the beauty of it, being able to talk with—





	LM:	You know, and so, I don’t have hidden deals and misdeals, and I’m very loyal. And I’m very positive. And I have an H&R Block certificate, you know I have. Because twenty-five of us started out, twelve of us finished, and I have Henry Block’s signature, because I was the only Black in the class. And when it got on down to the brass tacks, they used to have a little redhead. She was a nice little lady, I tried to help. “Miller, you got to turn her loose. We going to try to help you, we all going to get through this thing. And you got to turn her loose!” I said, “She is—she can’t make it. She’s finished eighth grade, she cannot do it.” And sure enough, twenty-five started, twelve graduated. And I have this certificate, I have H&R Block’s Certificate. I don’t work at it. My husband said, “Why do you sit up at three o’clock in the morning, studying, studying?” I said, “Because I want to prove I can do it.” But all these things. You see that bird over there? That’s punch work. I taught that kind of stuff. All the ceramics you see, are the finest, highest type of ceramics you want to see. Three different types. That’s easy to do, the umbrella stand. All those things, I made. My sister had beautiful things down in her home. She had a beautiful home, so she—and that little dog and the cat, those are easy. Now, you take the bird, it’s the middle deal. That’s what we call, that’s a polished kind, that’s a sailfish. And my name is on the bottom of those. But that blue jay up there stayed in the studio for a while, because it was such a finished job. Ms. Williams, pull it down for him to see that, please?

	W:	The bird?



	LM:	Yeah, the blue jay. Now, you do it with a pencil, and you make those feathers, and to make the eyes talk. Just pull him down. And my name is on the bottom.





And that’s the hardest to do. That comes out of the kiln black, and you have to bring the colors up, and you have to make the feathers alive, like. And you have to make those eyes talk to you. And that is art. Because we add a stack of newspaper cuttings. It’s like you put polish on it, rouge on your face, and you polish to get your colors. And you mark to get your pencil through the wings and all. You got to have pencil marks. But that gray, all that was a black surface. You got to bring those colors up from a black surface. It’s what they—that’s the highest type of ceramics. The other is you paint the thing and put it in the kiln.

This, you put it in the kiln, it comes out black, you got to do the coloring. The Noah’s Ark that’s next to it—

	RM:	Wow.



	W:	Oh, okay.



	LM:	And the mallard duck down there. Those are high-ranking—see, the mallard duck is in that other one. And those are high-type. And in the middle, the middle one, now, that we used to shine some kind of way. But this, bringing it up from a black surface. And all that Noah’s Ark, getting the snake—I said, “oh, that’s a snake back there!” And then the hippo, and the—you know, you've got to make those things live. I started for two years with that. I went to school all my life.

[Telephone rings, interruption in recording] W&RM: [Laughter]

	LM:	That was the police, I had to be kind. RM:	Ah, yes.





	LM:	But I did! I used to give them, I had the sticker in my car. And then, I gave up my car because of my friendship with the police. You take Yonk and them, and the hugging and the kissing and all that, and he going to look the other way. Blue asked me one night, it was raining, it come—I said, now, “Fool, you’re old, and somebody, some of these fools out there that just won’t drive right going to get in you, make them hit you or you hit them. ‘What that old woman doing out here on the road?’ I gave up my car.” When I got to be ninety-eight, I said, unh-uh. Can’t put my friends in jeopardy like that. They too nice to me, no. Get rid of your car. I sold my car, I had a 2006 Nissan. Bought it right off the truck when it came in.

That’s right. Silver-like, kind of, wasn’t white, it was silver. And got it run right off the thing. Just come in, and I rode it around there. My cousin and Venita were with me, and they said—I say, “I got to ride around the town a little bit,” and do this, and do that, and so I don’t hit something. Before I get it out of there. But I sold it. I sold it before I really finished paying for it. But I got it right as it got in there. 2006 Nissan, I got it in 2005. So, I sold it to—let me see… ninety-eight, and I’m 101 now. I know, I feel every year. Every one hundred of them years, I feel them all. [Laughter] Doctor say, “You take that medicine!” He’s old like me. I said, “You ain’t going to make no addict out of me! Now, I am not going to take anything that I have to go to sleep on and things, I ain’t going to take them until I feel I want to go to sleep like that.”

	RM:	Can I ask a question? What year was it that you came back down to Ocala? LM:	Oh, 1970.

	RM:	1970. Okay.







LM:

And I went, I was down in Fort Lauderdale fifteen years.

RM:

Okay.

LM:

Oh! I—my home wasn’t in that picture, I had a lovely home in Fort Lauderdale.

W:

When were you in Fort Lauderdale? What years?

LM:

You know where that Sawgrass—

W:

No, no, no, I’m saying, what years were you?

LM:

Oh, from 1970 to [19]85.

W:

Do you know I was down there? [Laughter]

LM:

Yeah?

W:

In fact, I retired from Broward County. But I lived in Miami, I lived in Miami-Dade



County.

LM:

Did you know Thomas … she was a good friend of mine. She would, she used to



cue us in the—

W:

Mary Thomas? Married to Mack?

LM:

Frankie. Frankie Thomas?

W:

Yes!

LM:

You knew Frankie?

W:

Yes.

LM:

Frankie was my buddy around the corner from me!

W:

She’s my sorority sister.

LM:

Frankie and I were—she used to cue us, and you know what? Hamilton was the



surgeon. Big-time surgeon.

W:

Dr. Hamilton, yeah.





LM:  He couldn’t remember those lines. I said, “Child, you can—” Sometimes we’d go to sleep in the church, I worked so hard, acting and all, and he’d take us all over to Plantation. Took us on down, we’d have breakfast over there.

	W:	Did you ever go to the—now, I’m now I’m getting… there were so many people in south Florida, Fort Lauderdale, Miami. There were just so many people, every year, they had a Marion County picnic. [Laughter]

	LM:	Darcy!



	W:	Darcy.



	LM:	But listen, Darcy and I were buddies with it. You know, Darcy served you the barbecue. We served you all two years. He had the barbecue, he’d serve you the barbecue, that come out of his pocket. And I served you the fish, out of my pocket. And the second year we did it, we couldn’t get the Pavilion. We got the Pavilion the first year, and, you know, we were like that.

	W:	I left there in 2000, trying to move my baby. I wanted my baby to attend school— LM:	Oh, you know old Frankie was there?

	W:	Oh, I knew all of them!



	LM:	Frankie was around the corner from me. You know them guys were going to rob me one night, they bumped my car. And Frankie was driving on down, we were coming from church. And I thought, “They going to surround me.” But four of these jokers got out the car, and I said, “They’re about to surround me.” Frankie drove on up there. “Whoa, what is going on?” I said, “Make them get in they car, go and leave me alone!”





	W:	[Laughter] Oh, I know she was raising sand! They were probably afraid of her!



Did she have a weapon or anything?



	LM:	They sure got away from me. W:	That’s right. Frankie—

	LM:	I had my car, and I lived around the corner from Frankie. Child, please. I told you, they had like—it was like society. They were high-flying. [Laughter] My sister was saying, “You coming down?” I say, “Yeah.” She said, “Don’t forget to bring your evening dress.”

	W:	Oh, they had some balls and stuff, oh!



	LM:	I said, “We not invited to—” She said, “You know if Miriam or any of them people have something you want, you want me to bring you, and you know we got to go.” And I said, “Oh, Lord.” And then here we go out to Cotton, in the car piled. Dot—you know, Dot had the beauty parlor in New York?

	W:	Dot Hinton?



	LM:	Dot Hinton. And that was Francine. Doc Jones. And that was Francine Hinton. You know what, I could act. You know, we used to—we worked on the eighth floor, that’s the biggest beauty parlor in the world. We had twelve manicurists. You look down the whole row, nothing but manicures. And we had—the hairdressers were, oh, they were French, they were Swedish, oh, you name it. That’s why I love everybody—

	W:	Her sister Lucy?



	LM:	Oh, yes! Yes!



	W:	I knew all of them! Woodrow?





	LM:	Goldshiger’s compound. And we’d have the big party out in the compound. And you see, they throw a party. And you’re automatically.

	W:	And they did it when they moved here. LM:	Automatically.

	W:	Yeah, big things. They did it from here. But they migrated, and they came back, you know?

	LM:	And it’s like unwritten, unidentified snootiness.



	W:	[Laughter] But they were all—they were fun people. They were fun people. I used to—

	LM:	In the glass room.



	W:	But I sure did like it, though, when I was older. LM:	Oh, yeah!

	W:	Then, I could go to all the stuff with my mom.



	LM:	I used to play hide and go seek with the Velveteen partition, you know, that would hang between the dining room and the living room that Doc had hanging between. And me and Chappy and Rishay, I didn’t have nothing but them boys that big like that. Because my sisters—

	W:	All of those names, see, I remember, they were all gone before I was— LM:	Yeah, and we played hide and go seek back there.

	W:	They had fun. LM:	Oh, yeah, we—

	W:	I heard about Hampton Hall. LM:	Yeah, great times.





	W:	When I came through and I was a teenager, Hampton Hall was this empty shell, and Dr. Hampton’s office was up there.

	LM:	You're talking about good times, they would—



	W:	And that’s all the people talked about. My mom, my dad, they talked about Hampton.

	LM:	See, I couldn’t go to the dances. But I would hear about all that. And see, when Booker Wingo, they go up there Saturday night and dance on down.

	W:	Woodrow? Who’d you say? LM:	Wingo, Booker Wingo.

	W:	Booker Wingo. Booker All Star.



	LM:	Booker Wingo lost his, he wore a size—



	W:	All these people were dead before I was born, but I still—



	LM:	He wore a size thirteen. And he lost his shoe! [Laughter] Dancing. W:	Up at Hampton Hall?

	LM:	[Whispering] They said, “Lois, know what happened?” Said, “That child, Booker Wingo dancing around there, swing his foot, and them number thirteens fell off!”

	W:	The Wingo family lived in this huge, two-story—



	LM:	See, Alfreda’s in there! She was in the paper. In the… W:	Who’s that?

	LM:	Oh, no. That’s my cousin. He’s a minister, and that’s his grandchild, Ollie. Have you heard of him? He pastors up at Waldo, up around Waldo. Well, he, that’s his granddaughter there. He’s been sick. But that was on my birthday, I was out in the country, with my family out there. And I told you, my grandson flew down





from—flew into Orlando, and then with the baby, you know. I got this a great- great grand—no, that’s a great-grand.

	W:	You know, the closest thing to Hampton Hall, in my era, during my era, I still couldn’t go to because I wasn’t old enough. They would have all of the stars that would come to Dr. Lamb’s place. Dr. Lamb owned—

	LM:	Oh, yeah! You all with Dr. Lamb’s, now that I didn’t— W:	Club Valet.

	LM:	I knew him. But I didn’t know his place.



	W:	And that was the place where Black people went. But they had big dances, and the stars would come in, and we would see the posters coming from school. We would see the posters on the telegram post. And we would say, “James Brown is going to be at the club!” I said, “Really?” And they would just name groups and whomever. They had live entertainment out at Dr. Lamb’s place.

	LM:	Oh, yeah. Well, we had—you remember when, you know Claronelle was my cousin.

	W:	Ms. Bass?



	LM:	Uh-huh. Dr. Rishay is the one who told us. He said, “You know, our people came out of Callahan.” And said, Williams, and my grandfather had those six kids by— they fell in love. You know, he was a slave butler’s son. She was slave owner’s daughter. And they had them six children.

	W:	Okay. Dr. Rishay?



	LM:	Rishay came out of the other— W:	He’s the next generation?





	LM:	No, he went out and he had, they called him Concubine. Well, you know, when they took him—

	W:	Concubine.



	LM:	When they tipping, and he was tipping. And there was Uncle Bill. He owned half of Williston and all that coming into Williston, there. Bill, that was my cousin. Bill Williams. That was a Joe Williams’ child. And then, there was Peter Williams, was in the McLachlan family.

	W:	So, they were all fair-skinned? LM:	Half, yeah. [Laughter]

	W:	[Laughter] Okay, I got you.



	LM:	Because they grandmamma was German.



	W:	See, you couldn’t be telling me all—we wouldn’t be sitting here having this conversation if this were sixty, seventy years ago! [Laughter] Know what, sixty or seventy years ago, I wouldn’t have existed. So, I wouldn’t have had the nerve to come and ask you the questions that I’m asking you now! [Laughter]

	LM:	But I have the nerve to tell them, when he says “Sarah Walker.” He say, oh, the judge, he say, “She wouldn’t have—” I said, “Don’t tell me!” I said, “My granddaddy got killed and left them six children,” I said, “and one of them was my Momma. You know I know that was my grandmamma. So, I sure know. Because she married another Black man. So now what?” [Laughter] And Uncle George was going to kill him, too, because, see, he didn’t—my granddaddy was good, a good man, and nice to her. But he tipped him. See, Bill Williams, Peter Williams. And then my other uncle from, not Daytona… Over like that side. Uncle Ramon.





Well, anyway, that's Momma’s half-brother. And she loved her brothers, she loved them all. Oh, she and I used to go to, Uncle Peter had the McLachlans. See, now, you know, Annie, from her side—because her daddy, he looked like one of those Germans, you know? We were German. You know, they used to have a lot of Germans over at Mountainup. Up on the hill.

	W:	Mmhm. Oh, you talking about—they still own a lot of that property over there, right?

	LM:	Yeah, they own a lot of that.



	W:	They were—they had, I mean, vast properties. And Ms. Minnie Green told me about how Black people owned, just, almost everything out there.

	LM:	Yes! Didn’t I tell you they were land-rich? W:	I’m telling you.

	LM:	And power-poor.



	W:	I said, "Momma," I said, “From here—” And we were riding, and just driving. And she was here. And Ms. Minnie Green was explaining, was talking about it. And you know, by then I’m an adult. I’m married. So, they would talk around me. I was real young.

	LM:	Well, see, she knew. Do you know she and I are the ones that got that school on the National Register? Because I have belonged to Florida Historical Society ever since I came back home. Yeah, because I would leave, being in with—if I go over where DeBarries are, she going to pick me up and he will too. He’s half- Seminole. When we put him in his chief’s thing, and don’t you know when I walked that four miles, and his son and his girlfriend protected me, to try to keep





water and all, and then the forest ranger said, “I’m going to help you make this, you going to make this track.” And he’d have me eat the jelly beans and drink some more water. And he would carry my chair. And I’d go as good as I could and get over the log again, where they put the logs in there. We were on the trail where they filmed the Yearling.

	W:	The Yearling, okay.



	LM:	But guess what? You know, Sheelie, that had that filling station, you know I helped clean his momma’s grave. He was, we were ninety. He was ninety. He’s dead now. But that Sheelie fellow, the filling station, right at the bottom of the bridge, where you go over Ocklawaha.

	W:	Where are we? What area is that?



	LM:	That’s over here at—going on 40 going over to Daytona. W:	Going east, going east on 40.

	LM:	Yeah, when you go over the Ocklawaha River. On the other side, you see, that’s where he, Sheelie, had his little store there or something. He used to, he and his momma and them ran the filling station out on 326. And with the Historical Society, we cleaned up his momma’s grave, and he came over. And he was ninety, and I was ninety. And he came and had a little fence that ran down at— just that little way. I said, “Don’t act like you can’t get over it! Get over it! I cleaned up with you, it’s your momma! You can step in there because it’s all clean! Now, get in there and act like you can’t get over that fence, you know you can get over that.” And he got over there, too! [Laughter] Newbie.

	W:	Oh, okay! Newbie’s corner. Gotcha.





	LM:	I cleaned up Newbie’s momma’s grave. And then Newbie came over there, with DeBarrie and them. Oh, we went where they do the water and all that. And when they had the thing here, and DeBarrie put on his chief Seminole outfits. It looked just like it. I say, “You look like the Indian now, child!” [Laughter] But I was with them when we cleaned up the thing, and Newbie came over there. “Don’t act like you can’t step in there, all the work we did cleaning up your momma’s grave.

Step in there, child! Get in there!” Ninety years old.



	W:	Now, tell me, who is Newbie? LM:	Newbie dead now, and Sheelie.

	W:	I know, but—see, I’m talking about the name Newbie. I always knew Newbie’s Corner, I knew exactly where it is. Who is—

	LM:	Newbie? His mother and father ran a filling station on the corner of 326 and 25A. W:	Oh, okay.

	LM:	Right on that corner. And Newbie’s daddy died. And when his daddy died, they didn’t deal too much with the Colored, because Momma used to visit Ms. Shaw down at the other place, and you see, they used to 0 they’d kind of pick at you and call her half-White or whatever. But, you know, like whatever. But she used to visit with Ms. Shaw down there. And she was just a sweet, sweet lady. But Ms. Sheelie made them boys pay their rent and board, and she paid them salary to run that station. She ran that station with two or three of them Sheelie boys, and Newbie was one of them. And then he ran his station over here at the bottom of that bridge for years. Newbie’s Station. When I was away in New York, and came back in [19]70, then Newbie was established there. But I walked, when I was





ninety years old I did a trek where they filmed the Yearling, and a four-mile trek. And the forest ranger was the one that helped me finish, because he was so nice. He said, “Now, rest. Eat your jelly beans.” I ate some jelly beans and drank the water. And then I have energy. And I could go another, about a quarter of a mile. And he’d bring the, have the chair. And I’d rest a little bit. And I’d eat some more jelly beans. And drink the water. I was having trouble finishing the last mile. They didn’t think I was going to come on with them. They say, “You think you can go?” And I thought, “If they think I’m going to sit here and these rattlesnakes and bears and everything going to come, and that group gone? And I’m here by myself. You must be crazy! Child, I’ve got my chair, and here I come!” “You going to try to make—“I’m going to make it.” Child, I was about a mile from the car then. I got in trouble down there about a mile in. I did them other three miles. And the forest ranger helped me finish the mile. I was giving out and I couldn’t hardly make that, and he said, “Drink some more water, eat the jelly beans.” And I was thinking about, who’s the president liked jelly beans? You know.

	W:	Who was that that…



	LM:	Jelly bean president, you know. Wasn’t that, he finished out Kennedy’s term? RM:	Oh, Johnson?

	LM:	Johnson, I think. One of them liked jelly beans. Who’s that that liked the jelly beans? Boy, those jelly beans are good, too!

	W:	Yeah, they are. All right, I’m hungry now, you’re talking about jelly beans. I’m going to have to get out of here.

	LM:	Yeah, I’m going to come—





	W:	But I could ask you a whole lot of questions. Secrets. LM:	I going to put some carrots in the—

	W:	They used to talk around me, and I didn’t know what they were talking about, my parents. And my mom and her twin sister, and her older sister Bea. Mir and my sister Bea.

	LM:	Oh, yeah, Bea! But see, Bea is in my category. Now, Bea McRae. W:	Now, everybody’s gone. Yep, Bea McRae! Bea McRae.

	LM:	It was all society, you call it, and whatever. And we didn’t know what was happening out there in the rest of that world. We didn’t know.

	W:	[Laughter] I was going to say, I didn’t know about the society part!



	LM:	Because they used to keep it out of here. But, you know, I did like Hailey did. They would be talking, and Hailey would be listening and all. And then Cousin Stevie helped me. She was eight-eight years old, and she would talk and I would write. And found out a lot of the old-time names, because I knew where these things were happening and things, and she would put a name on it.

	RM:	We can stop it. Do you want to stop it? [End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, August 28, 2014 Audit-edited by:	Patrick Daglaris, June 28, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019