AAHP 366; Hall; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 366 Robert Hall

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini and Randi Gil-Sadler on February 9, 2015 1 hour, 26 minutes | 46 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 366

Interviewee: Robert Hall

Interviewer: Ryan Morini and Randi Gil-Sadler Date: February 9, 2015



	M:	I’ll just introduce the tape. This is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. I am sitting here with—

	G:	Randi Gil-Sadler. M:	And—

	H:	Robert Hall.



	M:	Yeah, here in the Sam Proctor offices on February 9, 2015. I guess you would rather not be on that.

	H:	She is present. KH:	Katrina Hall.

	H:	My spouse.



	M:	Okay, thank you. So thanks for joining us. Could we start by just asking when you were born?

	H:	Yes, I was born April 28, 1963. I was born at what was called Holmes County Hospital, which is now Doctors Memorial Hospital in Bonifay, Florida.

	M:	Okay, is that where you grew up in Bonifay?



H:  Yes. Yeah, I grew up my entire life in Bonifay all the way through until age twenty when I started my junior/senior years at the University of Florida. So, I still kind of consider myself living in Bonifay constantly until 1985, but from [19]83 to [19]85 I was in Gainesville going to school.

M:   So you even went to a college locally in Bonifay for the first two years?





	H:	Not in Bonifay. In Jackson County at Chipola. It was called Chipola Junior College at the time. Now it is Chipola College, but I went there for my first two years.

	M:	Okay, okay. Were you in close contact with home, I guess, when you were there. H:	That is where I lived. Until [19]83, I lived in Bonifay the entire time.

	M:	Okay. Have you lived there since or have you been kind of living elsewhere in Florida since that time?

	H:	Yeah, I have lived primarily after graduating from UF in [19]85 I stayed in Gainesville and continued living there. I spent a couple of years in Tallahassee and then have been in Jacksonville the last ten years. But my mother, she passed away in 2009, but I regularly went back home and visited. And my sister also lived and taught both in high schools in Holmes County and then eventually at Chipola. So there was a still long, continuing family contact that I continued.

	M:	Okay. So I mean we can ask more specific questions, but in general, how would characterize Bonifay as a place when you were growing up? What was it like?

	H:	In many respects, not a whole lot different than now. It is small. Hasn’t really grown. Some of us would say it has died on the vine. In that respect, I can’t say it is a whole lot different from the [19]60s and [19]70s. Not very much in-migration. So what has existed there for multiple family generations is what still exists there.

	M:	Okay, so the same families you grew up with, some of the members of those families still live there.





	H:	Absolutely, it is now the people I grew up with and their sons and daughters and now grandsons and daughters. And they had links of generations before that even.

	M:	That seems like a powerful contrast to a lot of the rest of Florida in terms of so much of it is—well, I mean you know. It was one of the least populated states to becoming one of the most populated states in a pretty short order.

	H:	Yeah, I have studied Florida history huge. Nobody was here before the 1900s— other than if they were native, nobody was here before the 1900s. And really even after that, it wasn’t until after World War 2. Then it just rockets. But somehow, nobody came to Holmes County very much.

	M:	So what did people do in Holmes County when you were growing up? H:	For fun or for work?

	M:	Let’s start with work and move toward fun.



	H:	There wasn’t a lot of industry. There were things like lumber mills and some things like that. This was before the explosion of the prison industry, so it wasn’t even that. A lot of farming was very typical. School system, government agency work. That’s what kind of dominated the county.

	M:	Okay, were there a lot of farmers doing their own kind of feeding themselves?



	H:	It was a combination. Obviously, it is themselves, but it was a part of the economics of things that would do. Local farmer’s market and those type of things. I worked many summers for them. Either watermelons or hay baling or anything like that. It was more than just self-sufficiency. There was a market for that.





	M:	What kind of crops were the big cash crops there?



H:  Corn, millet, soy. Those were probably the bigger areas as far as the grains. I just know that from hunting in the dove fields growing up. You knew what was growing from that.

M:  Makes sense. Makes sense. Did most people hunt and fish and things for? H:   Yes, that was a very, very, very common activity?

	M:	Would you say it was a—in your estimation—was it a major part of subsistence or was it just kind of recreational or a little of both?

	H:	I would say both. My hunting with my father was certainly not to exist off of. Other than, yeah, we would eat what we killed. But it wasn’t going to be like we didn’t have food on the table if we didn’t. But that was still a very significant part of what a lot of people put on their table was that they could kill a turkey or a deer or something like that.

	M:	Okay, so were the deer and turkey the most common things people would hunt?



	H:	Actually, what I found out later as I grew up, we never killed a turkey. And I found out that by the late [19]60s or [19]70s there were no turkeys in Holmes County left. And that explains it, and over the last ten years they have just started a reintroduction program of turkeys in the Holmes County. So there were stories of people that were my father’s age about killing turkeys, and it was amazing to hear, but we were not very successful. And now I know it wasn’t a result of my poor hunting skills. So probably the areas that were the most common were deer, ducks and doves, and quail. That was probably the four areas that were the





primary hunting. I mean squirrels, rats, things like that, too, but it would really be like doves and ducks, and deer.

	M:	Did you ever eat much squirrel or anything growing up?



	H:	I never ate any squirrel. I have never eaten any opossum. I figured that I didn’t have to, and why did I want to. They were things that people ate, because they had to. I don’t think that they ate them, because they were particularly good. So I tried to avoid those if possible. I like deer. I like dove. I like quail. I like duck.

Never developed a taste for greasy squirrel or opossum.



	M:	Understandable. Did you have a favorite kind of duck? Or what kind of ducks were you running into?

	H:	Mallards were very common, but so were teals and pin-tails and some things like that. So it would be whatever it ended up being around where you were shooting.

	M:	Tasted all about the same, pretty much?



	H:	Yeah about the same. It is that wild game flavor. In this sense, not gamey. Just a good wild game flavor.

	M:	Okay, was there any tourism for hunting back then? Or was it pretty much just the locals were hunting?

	H:	No, no. There weren’t like hunt clubs. Not like bringing people in to hunt and those types. That really wasn’t part of it, and as far as I know, it’s still not really a part of it.

	M:	Okay. Okay.



	H:	Holmes County wouldn’t be real—amenable to a lot of outsiders coming into it anyway.





	M:	I am getting that impression. It is understandable. So, let’s see. It is right on the Alabama border.

	H:	Yeah, in fact, we often call it LA. Lower Alabama. That is kind of the joke. We talk about it. It is more Alabama-ish than it is really other parts of Florida.

	M:	How does that factor in politically? I know I was told by a guy who grew up in Pensacola that he identifies more with Alabama, because that is where the news comes from. Is that the experience in Holmes County?

	H:	Obviously, through the years has changed, because of cable internet and those types of things. But when I grew up, there was mainly two major local stations that you would watch. There was WJHG down in Panama City, Florida or WTVY in Dothan, Alabama. And that was really the two directions that you got your news from. So if it was your beach news, JHG. If it was the farm report, it was WTVY.

	M:	Okay. And you were mentioning recreation. So people hunted and fished. Was there anything else people did for fun?

	H:	Well, sports is always big. That was always something else as well. Other than that would be folks would take—because we are close to the Gulf, so folks would go that direction to the beach and things like a lot. But if you wanted to go a movie, you either had to drive over to Marianna or really go to Dothan or Panama City if you wanted to go to a movie.

	M:	And how far? Did you have to drive on a lot of dirt roads? Or was it pretty well- paved to get up those ways?





	H:	No, not dirt roads, but a lot of them, if you were doing the shortcuts, there were a lot of farm to market roads. But they were paved. Now down to Panama City was pretty much a straight shot. But Dothan was definitely a bit of a twisted route to get there.

	M:	Okay, okay. Was there any particular beach you would go to? Or you had your pick of the coast?

	H:	When you went down to Panama City, depending on the routes that most people go on in fact, that would be a standard thing in the spring and summer. There would be huge lines of traffic coming through Bonifay. All the people from up in Alabama coming right through on Highway 79, which took you straight to the beach. To what used to be called, well it still may be called that, the Y. When you got to the Y, you could go to the left or the right. One would take you to the more populous Miracle Strip kind of activity on the beach. If you went to the right, it was a little bit more pristine or less built up and that type of thing. But the other route with people came down US 231 was a little bit back farther east and you would hit the beach along that side. There were really two routes that people were taking, but through us, that would be the route where we would go. It was just Highway 79 all the way straight into the water.

	M:	Okay. And just out of curiosity, I have done interviews with people in Ocala who talk about how Silver Springs was such a draw. Did people from Holmes County ever go down there or to any other parts of Florida for recreation? Or was it pretty much just the beach locally?





	H:	Well no. I mean people would travel. I mean I remember us taking trips to Disneyworld when it first opened and things like that. But when it came to regards to springs or if you are talking about the Ichetucknee or that? Didn’t need them. We had ponds and lakes all over the place. We had the Choctawhatchee River. We had some of the most beautiful springs, Ponce de Leon Springs or Morrison Springs that you could ask. You didn’t need to go to Silver Springs. You had those things.

	M:	One more question. What kinds of fish did people usually catch? What were the big?

H:  Brim. I guess that would be in the croppy family. Panfish. Brim was a very staple one. Usually some type of like smallmouth bass were very standard. Catfish were three very common types of fish to have.

M:   Did you have a favorite?



	H:	I have always liked catfish, but for me, nothing is better than about a hand-sized brim. That is just about perfect for me.

M:   They are good.



H:  Plus, you can catch so many. If you catch them on full moon on the bed, then it is really a joke trying to catch them at that point.

	M:	Can’t argue with that. H:	No.

	M:	So, can I ask a little bit more about what prompted you, I guess, to contact us about Holmes County?





	H:	Two things. One of longer thought. When I was back in the graduate student back at UF in [19]98 to 2002, one of my professors, Richard Scher, who is actually close to retiring, I think. I took him for Southern Politics. I took him for several courses, and I also did some research assistant work with him. And we used to talk about southern politics. And my mother, who I go multi-generational, back to Holmes County from my great-great-grandfather moved down from South Carolina after the Civil War into Holmes County. My mother was as Holmes County as you could be. And she had all these wonderful phrases and idioms to apply to every situation. Her mother was—again part of it is that we lose these things generation after generation. My great-great-grandmother was full-blooded Creek Indian. So those things about the earth passed on to my great- grandmother and eventually to my mother’s mother. And again, some of that to her. So in talking with Doctor Scher, I would talk about all these wonderful idioms and expressions that my mother had and her outlook on things. And he said, you know, Robert, you really ought to get her recorded at some point before all that is lost. And we never did. And so that had always been on the back of mind a little bit. And here just a few weeks ago, I had just recently started on Facebook. I had never used that before and friending people. A lot of friends back home. And one Sunday evening, and this was just a few weeks ago, a month, month and half ago, one of my friends, grew up with him, we’ve gone to games together, spent nights together, the whole nine yards, hosted what I kind of figured was sort of rhetorical, and I kind of thought maybe what he was asking about, but the question that he threw out there was like why did those who were seeking for





same-sex marriage want to change the definition of marriage. Why did they have to change that? And I responded with kind of standard, maybe they just want the full measure of that relationship that everybody else in society gets. Well, that opened the door. After that, it was like a pack of wolves at my heels or maybe blood in the water or piranha as four or five different people from my old community started firing on at me about religion and abortion and gun rights and even the whole aspect that not any of Civil Rights Period had anything to do with that and everything else. I don’t think I am a naïve person, but these were people that I grew up with, and that I don’t know that I recognize those things in them.

So it really disturbed me. The other part was, in this, there was a lady who contacted me via this Facebook after she saw the things I had posted in these comments, and she is actually the same age as my sister and went to school with my sister, and she said, Robert, with the things you put, I need to tell you some things. So she relayed to me that her father, her parents, were part of the Klan, and as a child, she had gone to Klan meetings. And I just immediately said, we need to get your story down. And I was familiar with the development of oral history as a discipline just from being in school earlier with Doctor Proctor and some of his work. And so that just said, I got to see if I can reach out to somebody to start getting some of this. So that is really where that came from.

	M:	Okay. So, that brings up a few things. As I was saying before, Holmes County does not seem to be that well documented compared to a lot of places in Florida. What do you think would be some of the more important things to try to document about it?





	H:	I think if you want to get a feel for the character of the county, then you need to know, first of all, its initial existence and being pulled together. And then I think you need to look at the whole changeover. This wouldn’t be unusual in places in the South, but the whole changeover from Democrats to Republicans and the role of religion in the South. Certainly look at, for lots of reasons though, the complete lack of in-migration, which is not all connected to race issues. Some of it is just economic issues, but some of it does deal with people wanting kind of keep their control over things and not let outside things come in. I think those are all very important aspects. Then lastly would be, what I might term call the politics of family, because that really drives and has for a long time the politics in Holmes County. Bonifay is the largest town. Easily the largest town. Bonifay could dominate local politics in Holmes County if it wanted to, but it never really has. And a lot of it is because of that family identification that pulls out into the other regions of the county. Bonifay sits in the very southeast corner of the county. There is a huge range of north and west sections of the county. And if you are looking areas like Poplar Springs or Bethlehem, where if you travel farther west and you cross the river and you move in to Ponce de Leon, those are the regions that have been able to more maintain control over the county then just pure Bonifay. It is just kind of the opposite. It is like Chicago can’t run Illinois or New York can’t run New York State or whatever. It is just very odd in that respect.

	M:	Interesting. Yeah, getting back to what I was asking before about the Alabama connection, is Tallahassee seen as a kind of an outside influence there? Do





people identify enough with Florida to see it as the capital in that way, I guess? Do they feel connected to overall Florida politics, would you say?

	H:	Well, it depends on which Florida politics you are talking about. I mean if you are talking about staunch conservative politics in Florida, then it is just par for the course. No doubt about it. But at the same time, no. They don’t necessarily buy into the Tallaha—that is getting a little bit too far east. And see now, Tallahassee is right up on the Georgia border. So you have moved into a different realm.

Once you on past what I would call the river, well, it would be the Chattahoochee coming down into the Apalachicola after it after it crosses the down. That is at the time change, okay? Once you cross over that, it is like okay, you have crossed to the different world. That side, if you are back to the west of that, then it is okay.

You get to the other side, and now you kind of hit a different world as far as folks in that region think about.

M:   So, the time zone is almost a border in itself.



	H:	Seems like it. I guess because we put the time zone in connection to the river, it kind of fits that way. But once you get past, I mean really it is Jackson County, because it is not too much farther before you hit the river, then that is it. That is where the major changes. You hit really sort of Gadsden County and Leon County, and that really kind of changes up things.

	M:	Yeah. Then you start also getting into Tobacco country in Gadsden County and that area.





	H:	Yeah, quite a bit. Quite a bit of that, and tobacco was never a huge thing. For Holmes County, it was always about turpentine and sawmills. Not even so much paper mills, but sawmills and, early on, turpentine.

	M:	Okay, but you were saying the mills were not as large as they were in some areas? Or were they?

	H:	Well again, you are talking about the size that Holmes County was and the number of people so it is relative in that respect. That’s just what supported that aspect of it. But no, not anything gigantic. I mean not like what you have like say to Dothan, but that is where folks would take things, because Dothan was the peanut capital of the South. And so that was the route that people would go with.

	M:	Okay. So when you did your shopping and things like that, did you get most of what you needed in Bonifay? Or did you have to go up to Dothan or down to Panama City to kind of do the big shopping?

	H:	Let’s see. The big shopping. Can’t say there was a whole lot of—well, golly. I want to say yes and no to that. I mean it was a big event to go to Dothan or Panama City to go shopping. So for the bulk of everything, grocery shopping, even basic clothing or to the doctor or anything like that, it was in Bonifay. But that was another aspect that people always talked about is outside of Bonifay, most folks went outside the county to do their other shopping. Like if you were to the northern end of the county right on the state line, folks would regularly go, like, to Geneva. I mean, again, that’s what they identified more than, say, with Bonifay. And that is where they went and where their dollars went. That type of thing.





	M:	Interesting. So there is almost an insularity to Bonifay. You would almost expect the other towns to be kind of satellites to it, but they weren’t at all.

	H:	Not at all.



	M:	It was sort of on its own then.



	H:	And again, when you look geographically, Bonifay is. It’s isolated in that far southeast corner. The rest of the county exists really kind of separate to it.

	M:	So did you spend much time in other parts of Holmes County?



	H:	A lot. A whole bunch. More than probably most folks in Bonifay ever did and really for two main reasons. One, my father worked for the school board, and, during the summers, I would travel around into the different schools. Because he would be doing textbook follow ups and things like that. So I got to travel all over the county. Both sides of the river, all throughout the county and all the little individual towns as well as the ones that had actual schools in it. And then the other part was hunting and fishing with him. That took us to all different spots in the county as well.

	M:	Okay, but most people stuck around Bonifay or whichever town they lived in.



	H:	Well again, if you talk about the family connections, then folks would range in and out because of their family connection. But if your family wasn’t from across the river in the Ponce de Leon region, then you didn’t have much connection that way except for that. Or if your family was more connected northward out of Bethlehem or Poplar Springs, then you roamed in that direction. There was a lot of division along that line.





	M:	Okay, okay. Did you have any questions offhand? Or I can keep going. Okay. No pressure.

	G:	I mean I have questions. I don’t know if they are in the same vein as the questions—

	M:	Any vein. We will take all the veins. We’re open today.



	G:	Okay, then I will ask a few questions. When you were growing up, what were the racial demographics of the area? Were there a lot of African Americans in Holmes County when you were growing up? Or was it more exclusively White communities?

	H:	I don’t even know how to say demographics, because that almost carries with it that you have to have some divisions. It was almost overwhelmingly, exclusively White. Almost no African—and it has continued to be that way. It is still that way. Holmes County is probably close to ninety percent White. Has stayed close to ninety percent White. And if you don’t have any in-migration, those numbers don’t change either. So yeah, that’s pretty much the one arrangement that Holmes County has been. And it was purposeful.

	M:	Did you have another question? Okay. Could we follow up a little on that?



Because I got a lot of questions, but that is sort of anomalous. As I am sure you know, a lot of Florida counties were majority Black. Especially after the Civil War, there was a lot of Black in-migration trying to start. Because no one lived here, so there was a lot of interest in trying to start new communities and things like that. And you were even surrounded by counties that had a substantially larger Black





population. So what was going on in Holmes County? You alluded to its origins. I’m guessing it’s connected somehow to that.

	H:	Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I mean there are some counties in Florida, like if you look at Gadsden County or, say, Jefferson County or maybe even Leon County a little bit, a fairly high percentage of African Americans, certainly much higher than what is maybe typical in the fifteen percent makeup of the population. That type of thing. And if you look at the three most immediate counties around Holmes County, Washington County, Jackson County and Walton County, they all have significantly higher percentage of African Americans than Holmes County. Have always been that way. Some of this was passed on to me from people talking about it as well as just examination, but when Holmes County was created in 1850, late [18]40s, right around then, just a little bit before the Civil War, just right after Florida statehood in fact. And the whole purpose behind Holmes County’s creation was to create another county up in rural panhandle to give the panhandle continued greater representation in the state legislature. That was very common. That is a noted tendency throughout the south. That is why there are three hundred and fifty thousand million counties in Georgia. So that was created for that purpose and, to do that, they sliced off portions of Jackson County and Walton County and Washington County and maybe something else, but those really were the three counties that stick out. And it’s amazing that in those three counties that have that higher percentage of African American populations to what Holmes County has, how they managed to slice all that out and put it that way in Holmes County. What they did was those regions of those





counties that did not have the higher concentrations of African Americans, those were the portions of the county that made Holmes County. If you look at the map and you look at where Bonifay’s at in that lower southeast corner, and you are travelling westward from the east, you are going through Washington County.

You go into Holmes County, you hit Bonifay. You keep traveling a bit. You leave Holmes County, go briefly into Washington County, you cross the river, and you go back into Holmes County. It makes no sense to have that little jut of what would be the town called Caryville on the east side of the river and then cross over and then get to Westville on the westside except for that Caryville has always had a slightly higher African American population. Not a lot, but a few as compared to the other areas. So that part didn’t get cut into Holmes County. That is one of the other aspects that was going on with that where the people that lived in that region, in that certain cluster concentration, is that they didn’t want Black folks there, and they got their county that way. Not to have Black folks. And that had always been the word put out that don’t come to that county, and, if you do come to that county, you are made to feel very quickly that you are not welcome in that county. And that’s held up ever since.

	G:	When you said “the word got put out,” was it just word of mouth? Were there certain instances?

	H:	Again, if you think about that period. So, even if you say the 1800s, early 1900s, going on through, it is not like it has to be officially promoted by the chamber of commerce or something, but it is that sort of local talk about it. Because what would stop people from the nearby counties from moving in other than other





family members passing the word along. Oh you better not move there. Or we don’t want you here. That type of thing. It’s that type of word of mouth.

	M:	Let’s see. I had a few questions. Did you have a follow up? Okay. Just as long as we’re talking about the origins, so you have a—was it a grandmother or great- grandmother who is Creek?

	H:	Great-great-grandmother.



	M:	Great-great-grandmother. Do you know her name?



	H:	No, I don’t. I know the family name on my great-great-grandfather’s side is Pitts. I don’t know her name. My sister would probably remember that better. I know my mama would be able to say if she was alive, but we probably have got it documented somewhere.

	M:	Okay. Well, a surname at least helps a little. Because we have also done some work with the Poarch Creek Nation in Alabama, and they have some interest in that area. Because, of course, there were a lot of Creeks living out there. Do you know too much about the Redstick War? Or any of the conflicts between Creeks and United States military?

	H:	A little bit. Not a huge gigantic amount. Personally on my family’s side, my great- great-grandfather who married this full-blooded Creek, after he moved down from South Carolina, he ended up killing about six Indians that would come and attack him at the waterhole in Holmes County. Because that is where our family settled into. He actually ended up killing several that would come and attack him when he was at the waterhole.

	M:	The waterhole for livestock? Or for—?





	H:	For where everybody got their water. Not just livestock but your place where you got water.

	M:	So, he didn’t have a well. He went to the—



	H:	He went to the watering hole. I mean think about it. We are talking post-Civil War, 1870 kind of period.

	M:	Okay, yeah. That makes sense.



	H:	You gotta go to the creek to get your water or that type of thing.



	M:	Okay, so there were conflicts that way. Do you know anything about how he met your great-great-grandmother?

	H:	No, I don’t.



	M:	They just somehow ended up together. H:	That I don’t know. I never—

[break in recording]



	M:	Okay. Sorry. So we are restarting, and it saved the file up until the point when it started beeping and doing all of that. So did your family talk much about her? Do you know anything about that other than that she was Creek?

	H:	The biggest passing along would be when my mother would talk about her mother. Because she would talk about all the things that her mother knew about coming out of the earth and how to deal with sickness and those type of things. It was even that part like everything you got sick or something, you couldn’t run to the doctor. You didn’t run to the doctor. And she would talk about all the things that got passed along, and then of course, as I recognize, all the things that kept being lost as they got passed along farther and farther. So that would be the





closest of the things I kind of remember, and that connection from that way, but not really a whole lot of a lot of specifics about her.

	M:	Okay. Okay. So she would talk about her knowledge of herbal—



	H:	Roots and herbs and how to make poultices and cerecloths. I’ve had a cerecloth on me more than one time when I got sick.

	M:	So cerecloth, what’s—?



	H:	Cerecloth is a piece of cloth, and you end up putting ointments and things on it. And you would warm it up, and if you had a chest cold, then you would put it on your chest. For us, everything was about bigsav. But before that it would be different herbal connections that you would put together with that and then let that sit on your chest through the night. My mother used to about asividia a little bit, which evidently stinks to high heaven and back. But that would be one of the things that would be used as this herb root to help you get well with things.

	M:	Okay. Did the family ever talk about your great-great-grandmother traveling back to, say, to Alabama or to other gatherings of Creeks? Or was that not really discussed?

	H:	No, we never really talked about that. Nothing really of our history was really connected to Indians at that point. There just wasn’t much that we talked or connected to that point.

	M:	Okay. So another question about the dynamics of the county. Religion. What were the major churches or denominations in Bonifay and in Holmes County in general?





	H:	Baptist Church. Baptist Church. Baptist Church. Baptist was huge. I was a member, still am, of the Methodist Church. But there were also a lot of different more Evangelical versions. Whether it was Church of God or some other ones. That was very, very typical. In Bonifay, the primary church was the First Baptist Church. But as you branched out into others, even within town but certainly through the rest of the county, it became more and more even the more conservative Evangelical Christian churches.

	M:	And what about the few Black people that did live in the county? Do you know anything about their churches?

	H:	Yeah, they had an AME Church in Bonifay. At least the few that lived in Bonifay, they had an AME Church. I have been by it. My mother went to a funeral there at it. It wasn’t like hid. It was right on a major road with it but, yeah.

	M:	Basically, the community was small enough. They had just that one church. H:	As far as I know. I don’t know if there were any other ones than that.

	M:	Was that also the school? Or was there a Black school separate from the church?

	H:	Interesting story. Yeah, this maybe a little bit of what y’all want to know about.



Yeah, up until right around 1970, Blacks had to go to a different school. In Holmes County, in Bonifay in particular, which is what I am familiar with, at that point, that’s when integration finally forcefully got to Holmes County, to Bonifay. And my father was the principal at the high school. A distinguishing thing about my father, he was a product of the times. He was born and raised very poor.

Poor farm, big family in a little town in Alabama called Lisman. The next biggest





town is Butler. And then the next biggest city after that is right across the border in Mississippi called Meridian. And in fact, my name, his name was Robert Lee Hall, Sr. I am Robert Lee Hall, Jr. We were named for Robert E. Lee. And they weren’t even around at that time. They came over much later, yet we still have that name. So he was a product of the times in that regard. In fact, more than once I have heard him refer to Black people as “nigras,” which was the common term in the [19]60s. But I was fortunate in that I never saw one aspect of conscious racism in him or my mother. So I was able to weather not having that happen as much to me in my county. So my father was the principal, and he didn’t have an issue with the high school being integrated. And he was just trying to make that occur. That didn’t seem to sit well with a lot of folks in our county, and some folks in Bonifay. So one night—and this is right on about 1970, and I think my sister probably even remembers it better than I do, because I would have been right about seven and she would have been about fifteen or sixteen— but in the middle of the night, my mother woke me up, grabbed me, stuffed under a bed with my sister, and I remember looking out from under the bed into the cracked door into the kitchen, and a police officer was there talking with my parents, and somebody had called a bomb threat into our house. I think eventually they found out who it was. My sister remembers this better than I do. It was somebody that worked at the Bus Barn, which is where the buses got maintenance. I have been down there a bunch of times, but there was evidently a person that was connected to Klan activity and some of those groups unhappy with integration and had done that. And even prior to that event, there were





plenty of times that the word was put out about the Klan not happy with my father and integration, and sometimes our house would be circled by cars. Threats of crosses being burnt like that, and the last really story that I remember would be one time, and this was actually during a time when my father was sick, the word was again put on the street. And I guess they figured it was because my father wasn’t around, they could say something. The word was put on the street that the Klan was going to come and burn a cross in our yard. Well, this kind of fits Holmes County from two sides, which is both what I love about it and also what discourages me. But my mother, being as Holmes County as you can get, pretty much put the word back on the street that she had a shotgun, and if somebody showed up to burn a cross in our yard, she was going to shoot first and then figure out what was going on afterwards. Well, nothing ever did happen, and generally, that was the case anyway. It was more the threat of the cross burnings than ever matched the number of cross burnings. But the two sides of that is a distinct character of Holmes County. Holmes County has, whether you talk about the frontier spirit coming out of folks coming to Florida or that type of thing, there is a bit of, when I want to say lawlessness, I am not talking about actual crime committal, I am talking about the aspect of not liking the law. And they take care of things themselves. And the good side of that is so when something happens like with my mother is that she is just as willing to say, I will take care of myself. I don’t need to get on the phone and call anybody. The bad side of it is is there is also those folks who they too feel like they should handle things that way. But there is a heartiness and a roughness or a rawness that can be appreciated but





at the same time also seeing the parts that are not so good that go along with that.

	M:	So I am guessing the police force, at least at that time, had something of an informal, hands-off policy for some things?

	H:	Well, I wouldn’t have been aware of it when I am six or seven years old. I have learned some things about that since, but this also how economics and socioeconomic status gets involved. My family, we were the good kind of family. We weren’t real dirt-poor. My father was a school teacher, principal, administrator. We were certainly probably economics lower-middle income, but not poor White trash type of folks as it would probably be described by some folks. So when we had a problem, we would get the full services of the government to us, but that was not the same experience that other folks got. In fact, the lady I mentioned about her family was the Klan, her story is very two- sided, because while her parents were also that, they also suffered from being looked down upon and not getting government services and not being treated well by others. And she knows of those instances where government officials just basically knew what was taking place in regards to Klan type activities and would do nothing about it. Even if they weren’t part of the Klan, they just allowed it to continue.

	M:	Okay. And yes, I was wondering about the sort of class dynamics. Were there a lot of really, really poor families in Holmes County?

	H:	Yes, very much. Holmes County has always had a high poverty rate. Probably still does have a high poverty rate. Folks were just scratching out a dirt living in





Holmes County. And some of that was a testament to we are taking care of our own and we are doing it. But some of it also was we don’t want you in here meddling with us, because if you come in with your money and your federal assistance and everything else, now we have to put up with you telling us what to do or how to do and that type of thing.

M:  So what kinds of jobs? Are we talking mill jobs? Labor jobs? People who worked on the farms that were there? Or what kind of jobs did the poorer people usually have?

	H:	Well, yes. Some of it would be, farther back, would be like you are right. They would work in the turpentine groups. In fact, that might even be where some of your other racial groups, African Americans, would actually have found some work. And then when the turpentine industry sort of dries up, then you do have to leave. So there is some of that. A little bit of the farm stuff. And certainly the lumberyard. Arnold Lumber Company was a huge employer as far as one of the major working companies, at least for Holmes County, that would the way that would be. But that is about it. We had like a shirt factory. We had a couple of them. I spent the summer working in the shirt factory moving bolts of cloth around. So that would be a aspect, but again, that is very normal. The textile industry in the South. That would be evident in a lot of different places. But other than that, there just wasn’t a whole lot, a whole lot after that.

	G:	Do you recall any of the name of the Black schools before you guys integrated in



High Spring?





	H:	No, I don’t. I couldn’t tell you. I don’t think I could tell you. I am sure my father could have. I can’t tell you one word about the Black school. The only separate school I can always remember was a school called Hillcrest. And I think it was more connected to that is what would have been called, that is where the retarded kids went to school. It still exists in Holmes County. They moved it where it originally was and is now the building for the Holmes County Historical Society in Bonifay. So the building actually still exists. But I believe that is what Hillcrest was for, and I can’t think of the specific name for what the school that what few African Americans were went to.

	M:	Okay. As far as the Holmes County Hospital as it was called, did Black people have access to that at that time? Do you know anything about that?

	H:	It is not like there was any other hospital in town, but then again if there is not very many Black folks, I can’t really say that I can recall a lot. Somebody had to get treatment somewhere for something somehow, but it wasn’t something that was very noticeable.

	M:	So did you ever interact with any Black people in Holmes County? H:	Yeah.

	M:	When you were growing up?



	H:	Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, actually a few. I guess again I have to be thankful that my parents, they didn’t seem like that was a problem when it would come about. There was one kid I remember, Zachary White. We started elementary school together, and I just remember one day he got a big, huge splinter stuck in his foot on the wood floor in the elementary school, and I didn’t see him again. Then his





younger brother, Po White, went to my high school. Was actually a pretty darn good basketball player and now lives back in that community. But there were a few others. There were the Johnsons. Jeffrey Johnson. Another family were the Ridgeways. There were several Ridgeways, and one brother, Richard, was in my class. And another guy, Randy Brown, I think he went in the military and moved away, but those were different folks that were in my class. There is not a whole lot more to make a reference to after that.

	M:	Okay. Sorry. Were you going to say something? Okay. Okay. I mean you would have been young when the Civil Rights Movement. I mean it was sort of at its peak when you were born, more or less.

	H:	Yeah. [19]63, you are probably hitting at some of the more contentious times, right through there.

	M:	So based on what you can remember or reconstruct, was it even discussed in Bonifay at all? Did it hit Holmes County? Or was it more like with school integration? Whereas with a lot of Florida counties they waited as late as they could until there was a federal order in 1970, I think, that said do it.

	H:	Yeah, finally enough. With all due speed or whatever. It was like, yeah, we are being deliberate with what we are doing. Again, part of it I think is when you look at the complete lack of numbers, it just didn’t need to be talked about or dealt with, because it just wasn’t much of an issue. It became a big deal in 1970, obviously, but prior to that, there just wasn’t anybody to have to be worried about or be concerned about. There weren’t big enough numbers for it to be an issue.





	G:	Of the Black people you knew or some of the Black families that you knew of, did they travel a lot outside of Holmes County as far as jobs or leisure? Because you keep saying there was so few numbers that it didn’t really matter, but if there was that sentiment in the town that people didn’t want them there, do you know how they kind of maneuvered that sentiment while still living there?

	H:	I can’t say for sure. The impression that I get is that one, hardly any of them were doing very well so there wasn’t much opportunities to do a whole lot of traveling to other places. Again, some of the families that I knew, in fact that is one that I left off with, the Kitchens, in fact, Minnie Lee was someone that took care of me a lot when I was growing up. Minnie Lee Kitchens. In fact at some point, one of her sons I worked with at the shirt factory. Paul Kitchens. He was several years older than me. But yeah, Minnie Lee was kind of a staple in Bonifay. Well thought of and knew, but she wasn’t the only one. But it was kind of like they kept to their place and they stayed in their thing and that was it.

	G:	But she was like a domestic worker?



	H:	That, but she also had a little—I don’t know if you want to call it. I wouldn’t say bar. But something like that. I guess maybe juke would be a better way to describe it, but there was also that as well. Just a mixture of things. The locations that they were was very limited. I mean it was the quarters. That is what it was called. It was down by the railroad tracks. It literally was which side of the railroad tracks do you live on. And that is where they were all pretty much congregated or segregated to, I guess.

	M:	Do you remember much about the houses?





	H:	Just little small frame, usually sitting off the ground kind of houses. Not big.



Maybe sometimes like little shotgun houses. That type of thing.



	M:	Did people go to Minnie Lee’s bar/juke? Did white people go there, too? Or was it only Black?

	H:	Yeah, it was just Blacks. I mean it is not like it was hid somewhere. It was on one of the major streets. I mean a side street but a major street. It wasn’t hidden or anything like that.

	M:	Okay, I just wasn’t sure. But yeah.



	H:	And one thing to think about, when I say juke, I may not be 100 percent—having wide open bars in Holmes County was not acceptable. It was not legal. We were a dry county. So supposedly dry county. There are stories out of that, too. I have got stories from that as well. So it wasn’t like something where it was like when you think about a juke like that type of thing. But there was some drinking. It might be something that would be poured underneath the counter and out like that, but it also would be sort of like your convenience store kind of thing. Coke machine. Kind of that thing.

	M:	Like a general store with kind of a lunch counter.



	H:	Yeah, I guess sort of. I mean the place isn’t there now, but yeah it would be kind of on that kind of part of it. I mean I have been to it.

	M:	So was that the main economic center for the Black community there? Was that like the big thing that was there?

	H:	Yeah, that would be one of the spots. Because it was really literally across the street from where the quarters were at the railroad tracks. It was right behind the





feed store in fact. That was one of the big things we had in Bonifay was the feed store. So, it was kind of behind that.

	M:	So, she sort took care of a lot of children and/or did a lot of domestic work around town?

	H:	Yeah, absolutely. I mean it was not like I have a nanny every day, but if you needed somebody to sit or if you had someone come over and clean your house once a week or something like that, that was one of the things that Minnie Lee did.

	G:	Do you know how your family first met Minnie Lee?



	H:	No, I don’t. No, I don’t. I know my mother talked about learning to cook from another Black lady in town. Like the first time that she had ever cooked like the Thanksgiving dinner and how to cook dressing and things like that, that she learned from another Black lady in town. And that would have been—wow—that would have been early [19]50s, I think. Maybe, after she married my father, I think.

	M:	Let’s see. And so you were saying you are not too sure what other jobs Black folks in town did?

	H:	I do know this. It was one of those that you did a little bit of everything. You just sort of scratched a few dollars here, a few dollars there. Maybe you worked in the yard here, you did this over here. If somebody needed somebody to pick some vegetables, you did a little bit of that. You cleaned a few people’s houses. You watched their kids a little bit. Just every way that you could to scratch a few dollars together. No one central way that typically was the main moneymaker.





G:  You talked about a few Black students that you went to school with. Did you ever see them treated any differently? Do you feel like they felt comfortable in the high school that you went to?

	H:	I guess my answer is no. But I think my answer is, when you say did I see it or know how they felt or thought, I have to say no. I don’t know that I had an expression from them that they said that something was bad or wrong with how they were being dealt with. I didn’t specifically see an instance of where that they were being treated wrong or something like that, but I really can’t say as far as the whole general picture of how they took it.

	G:	Did they more stay to themselves? Or did you see them interact?



	H:	Well, they would play sports. You would be mixed that way, too. I would say during school part necessarily stayed to themselves, but certainly once school was out that was typically the case.

	M:	As far as the Klan, did people talk about that much when you were a kid? Did you hear much about it?

H:  No. In fact, my first time ever thinking or wondering about it was that night when I got pushed up under the bed. That is really the first time I ever knew or gave any kind of consideration or even wondered or thought about any of that kind of thing.

M:   How did your parents explain it? Were they straightforward with you at the time?



Or did they just kind of—?



	H:	Not right at that moment but a little bit later. Like that last instance when it was about my mother talking about the shotgun, because we’d moved to a different





house. Yeah, that was probably a little bit closer to actually getting the full explanation and the full understanding of what existed.

	M:	Okay. Okay. So after that point, did you hear much discussion of it? Or was it kind of—?

	H:	Nope, I almost think that—not that it disappeared—but once the integration actually took place and you got over that short period, and so now we are probably talking right on [19]71 or [19]72, that more open, blatant aspect kind of died down.

	M:	Okay, that makes sense. What was the feeling when they were riding around the house in the car?

	H:	I would have been real young. We are talking like six years old type of thing. In fact, it is kind of interesting when they list in some of the historic register buildings and homes in Bonifay, I lived in one of those. It was called the Waits Mansion, and we actually got the house from the son of the family, Sonny Waits. It almost took up the whole city block. So literally when they were riding around the house, they were just riding around the block around the block around the house almost the whole time. I can just remember seeing it and remembering that it was something but not like a full explanation of what that actually was. I mean I linked it together as we got closer into the early [19]70s. I think a big part of it was my parents were trying to not trouble a little kid about that kind of stuff.

	M:	That makes sense. And just as a quick question, how much time do you have today?

	H:	I am okay with whatever system, whatever y’all are on. There is not an issue.





	M:	Okay, just wanted to make sure.



	H:	I don’t have any classes today. I don’t teach classes ‘til tomorrow. So I am okay. M:	That is a good boat to be in sometimes.

	H:	As long as Burrito Brothers doesn’t close, I am okay. [Laughter]



	M:	They’ll be open for a while, yeah. I think we’e good. Did you have something? G:	I did. You talked or you gave us a little bit of information about the Dominickers,

and I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what you know about them. And you also talked about your mother working with them. So could you talk about it a little bit?

	H:	I know that they were kind of this closed group that lived on the other side of the river. That portion of Holmes County on the other side of the river or in that region. I guess I understand they kind of came over from Walton County, but that all makes sense. We were right next to Walton County and part of the river that that makes sense. My mother always described them as this group of people that were a mixture of White, Black, and Indian. And as part of her work in public welfare as it was called then in the [19]50s or maybe even the late [19]40s, as she traveled around the county in dealing with folks, then she would go into the Dominicker community on more than one occasion. It kind of struck me, because in coining some of this together, I saw where there was an instance where they said that a federal census worker came to Holmes County in 1956 to sort of document the existence of the Dominickers and couldn’t find any. As if they had disappeared, which I guess is possible, but I am also knowing that I know exactly what my mother talked about in the 1950s with going in that. And so, I know they





were there. But I also know that being a very closed, insular group. I guess the closest thing I could almost describe them as almost be like an Appalachian Mountain family closed community. That they wouldn’t be readily open and available for some fed coming into them for whatever reason that could be. My mother used to tell stories that as part of that insular group, one, they were discriminated against from the rest of the county. They were stuck out there. But they also had a lot of those kind of dysfunctions that go with those types of closed groups. There was a lot of abuse and incest. This is going to happen with a closed group like that that is closed upon. She would tell me about some of those things and trying to deal with getting those folks either some education or some medical help or anything like that.

	M:	What did they have for education? Were they that far out that they were just—? H:	There was some type of school. They were actually part of—I don’t know if it was

Westville School or Ponce de Leon School. There was some time of school, and when they went, because that was the other thing. When they did kind of come out of the swamps or the river or their locations, there was a school for them to be part of. But then something got closed up, too, so.

	M:	Did your mother spend much time there herself? Or was she was just kind of dealing with them or with administratively dealing with them?

	H:	No, she would go into the community when it was time to either try to get money to them or when you are trying to go in and determine what type of services were needed or could be provided. But as far as like on a day-to-day, that was a region, no. She wasn’t in there like that.





	M:	Usually we would ask this earlier, I guess we were so focused on the county, but what were your parent’s names?

	H:	My father was Robert Lee Hall, Sr. And my mother’s name was Margaret Jeanette Roberts.

	M:	How do you spell Jeanette? H:	J-E-A-N-E-double T-E.

	M:	Okay. So, was your mother’s family also from Holmes County?



	H:	Yes. Yeah. It would be my great-great grandfather migrated down from South Carolina after the Civil War and settled in Holmes County. So on my mother’s side, our family then continued on in Holmes County from that. My mother was actually born and raised in Dothan, Alabama. But then would regularly come back down into Holmes County, because it is a stone’s throw away from there anyway. But would regularly come back and meet with all the other family members, and then eventually, she moved back to Bonifay. And that is where she met my father who had moved from, after he had gone to school and then left and worked his way to Bonifay, and I don’t really know I am sure how that happened. But his family wasn’t in the United States all that long. It might have his dad actually fled England to avoid debtor’s prison. I come from an interesting line of miscreants, I think.

	M:	It sounds that way. What did bring your mother’s family, I guess, to Dothan?



	H:	I mean her mother ended up, that is where the family name Pitts is. So the connection again is because they are almost the same thing. As far as where people move back, and with Dothan there was an opportunity for economic





opportunity and things like that. And mama used to talk about, because she was born in in 1927, so it was really just before the Depression started. And she would tell me stories about how they were doing. What her mother would do for them to make money. The closest thing I could always think of was in the movie, Sons of Katie Elder, where Katie Elder would do all the hundreds of different things she would do to make money. That is how mama’s mother was. I mean she sew dresses. They had a family cow that they would sell the milk and the cheese in one time. Mama had the cow out, and she didn’t pay attention to it, and it got down in the bitterweed. And then, she got into a lot of trouble, because the milk that would come out of it would be bitter, and you couldn’t sell it. Because nobody would drink that, and so mama learned a very valuable lesson about tending to the cow and what it could get into. And then also about if you didn’t feed the cow well and do it, then we got you would call blue gian or blue gian milk. It is basically skim milk. It almost has got that thin, blue tint to it. That is where the name comes from. So if your cow wasn’t fed well, you wouldn’t get good, thick, rich milk. And my mother wouldn’t drink skim milk her entire life. She said, I am not going to drink any of that blue gian milk. But there would be stories like that coming out like all the things her mother knew how to do, how to fix. All those things about why you didn’t have to run off to the doctor every time something happened. All those aspects. So, that’s how that happened. My mother’s sister, Maldine, actually ended up marrying a service person, and she lived all over. In fact, my mother stayed up with her son in New Jersey briefly. But Aunt Dine lived all over the place, and then eventually did move back down to





the Alabama area and then back to Bonifay. But she was nineteen years older than my mother. There was a huge difference. She just passed away a few years ago, too, when she was almost a hundred and one. So yeah, I don’t think it was anything unusual to be in the Dothan area and back down, so.

	M:	Okay. So your mother had a lot of experience milking cows and things. What did you guys actually have? Did you have any kind of garden or anything?

	H:	You talking about me, personally? M:	Your family.

	H:	Every summer, we would put in maybe a half acre. I don’t think it was it a full acre, but a half acre garden. And just the whole standard that you would have. Beans and corn and squash and cucumbers and okra and all that kind of stuff. We would do that each summer on a plot of land when we moved out more to the country, if you can be more in the country when you are in Bonifay. I grew up in town until we moved out to the edge of town. But we always had something like that. Turnips planted or something like that.

	M:	Was that pretty typical of everybody? Or did not everyone have that kind of land? H:	More folks just right in town probably didn’t do it as much, but there was some.

But once you got right to the edge of town, that was a given. Everybody had a garden.

	M:	Okay. Were any of the Black families, in or outside of town, did any of them own any land? Or was it basically just where their house was? Do you know?





H:  Yeah, I think I know. I am trying to think hard about how many of them did own any plot of land, and that answer would have to be pretty much no. That didn’t really exist.

M:   Did people at the quarters own their own houses? Or were they renting usually?



Do you know?



	H:	I don’t know. My sense is that that is not the case, but I don’t know that for sure. M:	Okay. What you remember is—

	H:	But I don’t ever remember anybody ever talking from a standpoint of that it was their house, they owned it. I do know that a lot of them did rent. So, I don’t know the full numbers for that.

	M:	Okay. Okay. So let’s see. I think we are covering a lot of the questions. How was the history of the county passed on? Is most of what you’re describing coming from later research? Or was a lot of this stuff that was passed through the family in terms where the county comes from? Yeah, all of that kind.

	H:	A lot of it is that variation of oral history. It is passed down from family to family. Some of it would be like a document for something. Like you might have an old family bible, and then out of that be like, well, this was your so-and-so and this was what happened and this was happened. I mean we still have our real, real old family bible. So it would be some things like that. And occasionally there would be people that would write stories. Carswell was a person who wrote a lot of stories when I was growing up about Florida and some things going on. There were places where there were still people making some—in fact he was Judge Carswell. In fact, E.W. Carswell. So, those things would come up. In our local





paper, The Holmes County Advertiser, I mean you would get some stories out of it or eventually. I mean you didn’t really get the real underbelly stories, but you would get some things that way, too.

	M:	And then you were saying there were some stories that were told a little more socially in terms of hunting stories or other kinds of things. You would get kind of, I am guessing, tall tales. Or if not tall tales, at least—well, I don’t know. Exciting tales about hunting things or something like that.

	H:	Yeah, I guess some of it. There is always where people sit around and do that stuff by the campfire kind of thing. I don’t know where I have ever heard a story that just seemed outrageously ridiculous like tall tale kind of thing. And again if there was a lot of that undercurrent of violent activity toward folks. It wasn’t really talked about or put out there, but I know it is there, and I can give you an example. My best friend growing up, at one point, his father was sheriff. And one of his areas was going to be to close up a lot of those jukes, because Holmes County was dry. And that wasn’t a very popular thing to do. On the edge of town of Bonifay, there was a restaurant that would also serve some alcohol. My parents were eating. In fact, I would have been born. I was there. I remember it better, because of my mama telling me the story. The sheriff was Mr. Belcer. In fact, he was the state representative at one point also. Might have been our first from Holmes County. But anyway, we’re in the restaurant, and Mr. Belcer’s brother, Robert Belcer, was there. And he was having a drink. And they said, Robert, you better be careful, because they are going to come in here and get us. And he just very blatantly said, that is Chaunc—Chauncey was one of my





friends—that is Chauncey’s best friend. Do you think his daddy is going to come in here and arrest us for this? It is both funny in its blatantness to say that, but that is sort of the character of a lot of the folks in Holmes County like that. And I have always felt that it was humorous about that, but it kind of carries with it that other message at the same time.

	M:	Yeah. I am sorry. Did you have? Go ahead if you— G:	I did not.

	M:	That raises one more thing that I wanted to—so it was a dry county, but every dry county was only so dry. Was there a lot of moonshine going on in the county?

Was there a lot of bootlegging from outside the county? I am guessing a combination or what?

	H:	Yeah, a combination. I don’t know. It wasn’t difficult. I mean you just could go right to Washington County and get any booze that you wanted. So, that wasn’t that difficult. Moonshining was available. I don’t know how prevalent, but I know that it was. Again, another part of your economics to the county. And my personal story to that would be one time when I was out bird-hunting with my father and a friend of ours. And we were working this field with our two dogs. I don’t know why that is important, but we were working the field with our two dogs. And it is not uncommon in many of the fields, since it was kind of sloped and then in the bottom, is like a sloop. And as we were working the field, there were two other gentlemen out around the edge. This is in the mid-[19]70s. I am twelve, thirteen. I am a little bit more probably cognizant of things that are around me at that age. And these two guys are working around the field, and one has a





shotgun, which wouldn’t make you think twice. And the other one had a rifle. And they are just sort of working around the edge. And it wouldn’t be unusual like if people were hunting to crisscross other different routes and stuff. And I just remember asking my dad or with the gentlemen we were with, what are they here? Because they are not bird-hunting with a rifle. He said, those two ole’ boys there, they have got a still down in there, and they are just making sure that either one, we are not revenuers. We are not federal agents. Or mainly, they just don’t want us to stumble upon or they have a still down there. And that is [19]7— what [19]75. Okay. Well, I know Burt Reynolds did White Lightning in the early- [19]70s, so it doesn’t have be that far removed but still. 1975 and that’s still a reality of what takes place. It is just now the explosion of moonshiners as far as on TV and stuff. But, no, that was always a part of Holmes County. It wasn’t anything different for them.

	M:	Do you know where many of the Kitchens got her alcohol supply from? H:	No.

	M:	Do you have any idea? H:	No, I surely don’t.

	M:	Okay. I think that’s covering most of my questions for now. But as far as where you would like us to move. It sounds like maybe we can talk to your sister if she’s interested.

	H:	Yes.



	M:	And you also know a woman who had relatives who were in the Klan, correct? H:	Yes and still has family in Holmes County.





	M:	Where does she live now?



	H:	I don’t know the town. I want to say maybe Phoenix City. But I think I gave you all the information. I have got her phone number, and I certainly have a contact with her via Facebook.

	M:	Okay, that’ll work. Is there anyone else we should talk to who you can think of?



Or any place else we should try connect with?



	H:	I gave you some of those names. There are the Smiths, Diane Smith and Stephanie Smith. I am trying to think who else I had on. Those were what I thought were the first initial ones of folks that were willing to open up and said, yeah, we would like to talk about it. Stephanie is the one who—her mother Diane Smith, her father owned and ran the Holmes County Advertiser for a lot of years. Then as he got out of it, her husband Oran Smith did the Holmes County Advertiser. Stephanie is his daughter who I went to school with. And one day, she was going through his memoirs. He is in bad health now. And there was a little blurb reference to a guy who had lit a small cross on fire in the yard, and the way the memoir is written her dad just went out and got a water hose and put it out. As it turned out, it was a family member of someone who had been arrested for something, and they published information in the paper. And they were upset about it. I mean that is probably not unusual for people being upset with journalists, but just the whole aspect that they would burn a small cross in their yard is like how it gets all kind of crazy and mixed up at some point. But anyway, I did not know what kind of things Stephanie might know or let’s say Mrs. Smith, because she is a long-time resident of Bonifay. Or what might come out of what





her husband’s memoirs might know as far as connections. It was just something like with Ms. Diane Jenkins is that what all things kind of flow from that. I know my sister is another person. I didn’t have any contact with her, but her name is Liji Ethridge Tisdale. And my sister knows how to get in touch with her, but her father was what you’d probably call the ambassador of Bonifay and Holmes County. He was on television, on the radio, and thereby every morning Mr.

Ethridge, who was also a local insurance salesman, but he knew everybody for traveling around and getting their insurance things. I mean everybody: White, Black, whatever. They also took care of some foster shelter people also. And so there were a lot of comings and goings. And so Liji might have some other perspectives. Because my sister and Liji were like best friends. There might even be other perspectives that Liji has from with her father and some things like that.

	M:	Okay, that will definitely be of interest.



H:  I am sure my sister will be able to. I mean I can get Liji’s information, but I think my sister will probably just have it more immediate than I would.

M:  No, that should be fine. Then I think unless you had anything else, this is a good place to close. Is there anything else you wanted to add before we close out the interview?

H:  I am not sure what all I covered or haven’t covered at this point. M:  You covered a lot of good stuff. I’ll say that.

H:  I think that is probably it. Unless something else pops into my head, I think that is probably about the most of it, I think.

KH:  You might want to—the little thing about—remember the swimming pool.





	H:	Oh yeah, that’s right. I forgot about that. This is recent. And this is not me living in Bonifay now, but this is probably, I don’t know, five, six years—no.

	KH:	I was right before your mama passed away.



	H:	Okay, so we are talking about maybe mid-2000. 2008, [200]6, [200]7. Right around there. There was the city pool or the city rec center. And it was being managed by the First Baptist Church. You know they would contract out, and they would run the stuff. This was the city-owned-run rec center that the First Baptist Church was running for them. And there was an incident, and I guess you actually lay it out along the lines of economics. But it really essentially played out along the lines of race. Where there were certain kids, Black kids, that weren’t allowed to use the pool. And you could put it in the realm of that it was the poor folks, and the richer folks didn’t want the poor folks there. But it really cuts either way. Eventually if the bulk of the folks you don’t want there are of any particular ethnicity simply because they are poor. Even then, it was going on. It was a big stink in the paper for a while. I mean it is all documented. And it comes out of that First Baptist Church again, so that was the people I have had some discussions with.

	M:	Interesting. Was that always one of the major churches in town? H:	Always. Always. And it has only gotten bigger.

	M:	And then you went to a Methodist Church?



	H:	I went to the First United Methodist Church. It was up the hill. But yeah, First United. It is right across from the county courthouse.

	M:	Was that also a large congregation?





	H:	It is a lot smaller now than it used to be. It probably was around, on a Sunday morning, about two hundred. But it’s a lot smaller than that now. But First Baptist Church was always bigger and has only grown over the years. I don’t know where they’re coming from, because there ain’t nobody in the county. But they are the central big church in Bonifay.

	M:	All right. Well yeah, good thing we were sitting here then. H:	Thank you.

	M:	Thank you. All right, well thank you very much for sitting down with us. H:	Sure.

	M:	All right, so we are going.



	H:	I think there is a little bit of dispute as to where Holmes County got its name, and some of it has been documented. But the one that seems to be the most common or the most reasonable is that there was an Indian by the name of Holmes who migrated down to that region. And he was actually one of the chiefs of a tribe. And I think, I understand, that he might have been, as what would been called then, like a half-breed. And that is where Holmes County gets its name from. And at one point, he was I guess hunted or captured or killed. Like he would hide in areas in that region, in some cave areas and things like that in trying to stay away from them. But that is where the name comes from. Out of it. There is another version, too, that is like connected to that. I am not sure, but that’s the one that is seems to be the most understood and fits with Indian influence in Holmes County.





	M:	Is that part of the oral history there? Is that something you have researched and found?

	H:	Both because I was told that growing up. That that’s where it came from, because you can search and search and you just don’t find many places called Holmes or Bonifay for that matter. So it was always like, where do you get these unusual names from? So you would hear some of that. And then after that was also trying to research just how legitimate and solid was it about the Holmes County name.

	M:	Okay. Well, excellent. Thank you. That is a good addition. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Derick Gomez; March 25, 2015 Audit edited by:	Holland Hall, March 20, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 25, 2019