AAHP 418; Major; Page 10

Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu





The image part with relationship ID rId1 was not found in the file.



AAHP 418 Anthony Major African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Rosalyn Howard on November 30, 2015 2 hours, 9 minutes | 59 pages



Abstract: Mr. Anthony Major in this interview reflects on his family history, childhood upbringing, and the twists and turns of his acting and directing career. He shares his family migration from Quincy, Florida to Newtown, Florida outside of Sarasota due to Klan violence. He reflects on his time in grade school during segregation and its impact on the community. He shares his love of baseball and the ways he was able to pursue the sport. He discusses how he went to college in New York and began his acting career. Additionally, he reflects on his many successes and failures within the film industry and his entry into teaching at the university level.



Keywords: [Newtown, Florida; Segregation; Black Entertainers; Negro Baseball League; African American History]



Standards

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifact, literature, education, and publications.

































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 418 (Newtown Oral History Project) Interviewee: Tony Major

Interviewer: Rosalyn Howard Date: November 30, 2015



	H:	I’m Dr. Rosalyn Howard and I’m meeting with Anthony “Tony” Major, who is a professor here at the University of Central Florida. And Tony—

	M:	Good Morning.



	H:	I’d like for you to tell me about your position here, and about the program.



	M:	My position here currently, because I’ve been through so many different departments here, I think I hold a record. [Laughter] You know. ‘Cause I started in theatre, then I went to film, then I went back to theatre and back to film, communications, now back in College of Arts and Humanities. And my current position is the director of Africana Studies and also director of the Zora Neale Hurston Institute for Documentary Studies. And it all falls under the Dean, in the College of Arts and Humanities, Dean Fernandez.

	H:	Okay, excellent. So that’s what you’re doing now. M:	Correct.

	H:	Now we’re gonna go back in the past, because, as you know, Newtown is part of a community in Sarasota, has now celebrated, last year, its centennial, and you grew up there. And that’s what I wanna ask you about. Your, this history of your family in Newtown, Overtown, if that’s where they began—

	M:	No, all Newtown.



	H:	So can you tell me, how your parents came to live in Newtown?



	M:	Hmm. I get different stories. My grand uncle, who passed away at one hundred years old, and my grandmother who raised me, say that they all left North Florida due to the Klan. And my great grandfather, who sent my grandmother to





Sarasota, never made it. So the story is that the Klan finally got to him before he could get out. He didn’t come with the rest of the family. And they all come from Washington County, in what’s called something Ferry—Mill’s Ferry or something like that. But anyway—

	H:	Can you tell me what city that’s near in North Florida?



	M:	Quincy. Just west of Quincy. Between Pensacola and Tallahassee. Cause Quincy’s right outside Tallahassee, so a little further west that that is the area that that side of my family came from. Meaning, my mother and grandmother and so forth.

	H:	And how about your father’s side?



	M:	That’s a little more shady, my father’s side I think came out of Alabama and Georgia. I’m doing research now, to find out where that side of the Major family originated. I know a little bit more about the Davis side because they originally were the Davis’, because I was raised with that side of the family than I do with my father’s side. My father lived in Sarasota and grew up there, but I lived with my grandmother and not with my father.

	H:	Okay. And how did your family come to leave Quincy and wind up in Newtown? Did they know people there, or have you heard that story about how they wound up there?

	M:	Well I think that’s where the work was—my understanding. And so they ended up, at that time, coming to Sarasota and kinda help settling Sarasota at that time, because hmm—Again these are notes that I’m beginning to put together. My cousin and I, Elaine Dorsey, and Bruce Lincoln Beth—A.A. Lewis, Bruce Lewis,





we call him Bruce, his name is Lincoln Pasteur, beginning to put some of that together. And also Jerry Dorsey, Elaine’s brother, and but I’ve also begun to research the Major side, and I haven’t gotten that far with it yet, but I think some of the family members had moved to the area, because back then the family stuck together and stayed together, so they all eventually some of them, like my grand uncle who lived to be one hundred, eventually moved to Tampa. But initially he was in Sarasota. ‘Cause he was initially married to a Haygood, his first wife which Donald Haywood was very, and still is, a very good friend of mine. We all went to school together. From kindergarten on.

	H:	Is he someone that’s still in Sarasota?



	M:	He has a home in Sarasota and a home in New York, so they go back and forth, him and his wife. But yes, he’s in Sarasota. But I would say it was due to the type of work and stuff involved in Sarasota at the time, and other family members that were there, cause everybody knew everybody. You know, and everybody was related to everybody pretty much.

	H:	Tell me about what year, approximately, they came?



	M:	If I would have known this question, I would have brought my notes. [Laughter] Well my mother was born in 1922, and she was born in, I think Harper’s Ferry, I think that’s what its called. Something like that. But, so it had to be between [19]22 and of course, [19]39, cause I was born in [19]39. I would say around the [19]30s, early [19]30s.

	H:	Okay. One of the interviews that I read mentioned someone named Suit Major, or Soup Major, who was involved with the circus. Is he related to you?





M: That’s my father. H:  Okay.

M:  His name was Benjamin Major, like my middle name is Benjamin Major, Anthony Benjamin Major, and my father was known as Suit Major, ‘cause he always wore a blue suit.

H:   Okay.



	M:	Ladies’ Man. [Laughter]

	M:	One of the reasons, I guess, I was voted the “Most Handsomest” guy in my high school, yeah. You know how you have those yearbooks—

	H:	Uh-huh.



	M:	They wouldn’t give me intelligent, so they gave me handsome. Yeah. My classmates. [Laughter]

	H:	Wasn’t it nice that you wound up with both? M:	Yeah. But Suit Major, that was my father.

	H:	He was involved in the circus?



	M:	Well, everybody was pretty much. You either worked at the circus, or you did— the women were maids. Or you worked, like he eventually worked at the golf course. He also went away for the military, and so did my uncles, my mother’s two brothers—

	H:	What branch of the military?



	M:	The army. Yeah. And they served and then came back home, and then eventually my knowledge is that he worked at the circus for a while. And I was





kinda young I guess when that was going on. Then I remember him working at Bobby Jones’ Golf Course. ‘Cause I would always tell people he worked at the golf course, but I never played golf. People like, my mother, who kinda refused to be a maid, kinda refused to ride at the back of the bus, so she was one of the first kinda pioneers, so my grandmother knew she had to get her out of Sarasota in order for her to survive. So she eventually moved to New York when I was, I wanna say five, four or five, something like that. And so that’s why I say, my grandmother raised me.

	H:	Okay. And what school did you go to there?



	M:	There was only one, Booker High. Booker Elementary, Booker this—there was no middle school at the time. It was just elementary school, sixth grade we crossed the ditch—there was a ditch that separated the elementary school from the high school—and so we called it crossing the ditch. So in seventh grade you crossed the ditch, and know you were in quote “high school.” So the classes that we took were seventh through twelfth, in high school.

	H:	Okay, and after high school, what did you do?



	M:	The day I marched, on Sunday to Monday morning, I was on a plane going to New York with my mother. And eventually going to City College for a year, and the transferring to Hofstra in Hempstead, Long Island, where I got my undergrad degree. But I left the day after. I think I was the first one to leave, you know. I just remember seven o’clock in the morning, we got on a plane going to New York.

Which was my first plane ride. And seven o’clock that evening in New York, I was in Ebbet’s Field in Brooklyn to watch the Brooklyn Dodgers, because baseball





was my sort. My thing at the time. And I had grown up playing baseball all my life. And my uncles and my brother, all my father’s brothers were baseball players, all great baseball players.

	H:	Oh, really? What were come of their names? They played for the Negro Leagues?

	M:	Yeah, I did also.



	H:	What year?



	M:	Yeah I played, [19]55, [19]56. My grandmother wouldn’t let me play when they really came to get me because I had to go to church on, they played games on Sundays, so the manager finally talked her into letting me play home games. So I’d go to church in the morning and head out to the ball field. And then the following year, I could travel with them, I finally could travel with them. ‘Cause I played baseball, basketball, and football when I was in high school, but we didn’t have a baseball team in high school, so I played with the Sarasota Red Sox, we were a part of the—We used to play with the—I think it was called the Florida West Coast League with the Bradenton Nine Devils, and Tampa, and Plant City, Bartow, and you know we’d travel on Sundays.

	H:	What was your team? M:	Sarasota Red Sox.

	H:	Okay. Very interesting. Okay so, right after high school, you left and went up to New York—

	M:	The next morning.



	H:	And then to Hofstra. What did you study there?





	M:	Well initially at Hofstra, I was a music major. I played clarinet, and I had gotten a scholarship for the Marching 100, so the letter—

	H:	And the Marching 100 are—



	M:	FAMU, famous Marching 100 band that started all the other bands in the world, marching. Three hundred thirty-two steps a minute, is the claim to fame. And when I got the letter from Foster who started all that at FAMU, it said that I needed to be on the practice field at 6:00AM, before breakfast. And I said, “Do I really wanna do this?” [Laughter] So I didn’t, I really wanted to play baseball.

So—and didn’t really wanna go to college. And my, in a sense, my uncle, my father’s best best buddy and friend was called Buck O’Neal. And Buck O’Neal is famous for the Kansas City Monarchs and Black baseball and the Negro Leagues, and all of that. So he and my father were like “this,” and he came and saw me play when I was a junior in high school. And he promised to come back my senior year and he was scouting then for the Chicago Cubs, also the Giants, the New York Giants. But of course, like I said I left the next morning, I didn’t wait on him to come back ‘cause, I figured that once my mother wanted me to go to college that I could up the bonus, you know? [Laughter] But, never seeing snow in my life, at Hofstra it was nine degrees, and the coach said, “Let me see what you got, son.” And I showed him what I had, but after that I couldn’t comb my hair. [Laughter] I couldn’t life my arms to comb my hair. My shoulder was so, pain is so, so I never really recovered. And my chance of making the Major Leagues was as a pitcher, I couldn’t hit. I learned how to hit later in college, but not enough to make the Major Leagues. My growing up had always been pitching,





since I was, you know, I don’t know how old. Used to throw rocks at the pole, and I saw all the baseball movies. All the old baseball films. I used to have a mitt in the back of my yard, nailed up against the wall. I used to hit that mitt and practice control and, got pretty good at it. So we used to, my teammates in school, who played outside ball, like I said it was no school team. We played basketball and football, the only two sports we had at Booker High at the time. And so what we did is, we would go play Bradenton or Palmetto or Tampa, something like, we’d all just pile in a couple of cars and go. And little did I know, once I started playing professional ball that people were betting on the games in the stands. And were betting that I strike out this guy, that guy, they had this little pool going, you know? And so sometimes they’d share some of them funds with me if I, you know, struck ‘em out or, you know. But it was back in the day when they would have double headers and the, it was called, it wasn’t a cookout. It was a, they’d say, a hundred chickens, or fifty hogs and gone be, so many can barbecue, here and there. So that was the big sale, was to come in there and picnic, and have food, and all these chickens and ribs, and chicken would be cooked and barbecued. So the fans would make a day out of it, they’re there for a double header, you know? So every time we’d go to or when they’d come to Sarasota, it was the same thing. And unfortunately for us, the guy that owned the team also owned the bar. And he didn’t know anything about baseball so he ordered brand new uniforms, so we’d say, “Ahh we getting new uniforms! Brand spank new uniforms!” They came, they were all 100 percent wool.

	H:	In Florida?





	M:	In Florida. And we played our games at one o’clock on a Sunday. H:	Oh my god!

	M:	So, we lost a lot of weight! [Laughter] H:	I can imagine!

	M:	But no, it was fun. So I mean it was like music had become, because Mr.



Valentine came to town and started a band. And when he came, I used to hear music on the radio, but I never knew what made the music, or what made that sound. But when I heard the band, I said, “Oh! That’s how music is done, and made.”

	H:	And what year was this? How old were you?



	M:	Well I had to be in high school, so maybe in ninth grade, around that time? Eighth or ninth grade? So I guess, I’m not sure exactly. But I remember my friend, Stewart Baker, who actually teaches in Seminole County and retired, he was a teacher there. He played the clarinet. So that’s how I ended up playing the clarinet, you know, ‘cause he played the clarinet and I was taking piano lessons, my mother had me take piano lessons. But clarinet became my instrument. And I fought long enough by the time I got to my junior year, there was a guy in front of me, R. T. Anderson, whose father and mother were teachers there. But their daughter was in our class, Rebecca. And R. T. was very good on the clarinet also and I used to fuss about, “Why am I playing third clarinet and he’s playing first clarinet?” And Mr. Valentine said, “Play third well, and you’ll do your part.” So eventually I played third well, in practice, and I got to play first clarinet. And then he and I would battle back and forth of first chair and second chair. So in





practice, you’d play a part and whoever played it better, you got first chair that day. So I used to play first chair once in a while, even though R. T. had a better tone I think than I had. But he’d go home and practice and he’d come back and he’d play that, you know. So when I got to college I got a music scholarship. So that’s why I was studying music while I was playing football, basketball, and baseball as a freshman at Hofstra. And I studied three years, I was almost to graduate with a music education degree when I realized it wasn’t for me. That wasn’t my calling. Trying to harmonize Bach carrolls and had all these rules, and moving thirds and parallel fifths with a professor who didn’t want me in classical music. And making it even more difficult. And so—

	H:	Was that because of your color? M:	Because of my color.

	H:	Skin color?



	M:	Correct. I mean, it wasn’t stated that way, but it was obvious that he thought that we shouldn’t be playing classical music. I’ll never forget him, Elie Siegmeister.

	H:	So what year did you graduate from high school? M:	[19]57.

	H:	Okay so that was way before desegregation of the schools?



	M:	Correct. Booker was always an all Black school. From start to finish for all of us, until, even when the—in [19]54, I didn’t graduate ‘til [19]57, so I still graduated from a so-called separate but equal. But was nothing equal about it. First of all, we never had a foreign language. So when I got to college they said I needed two years of foreign language. I said, “What?” I mean, we only, we had one





Spanish teacher that came when I was a senior. And I didn’t take Spanish ‘cause no one told me I needed it. And so here I am in City College, where they require you to have a, you know, two years of Spanish. I’m sitting in a class of advanced Spanish, trying to make up for a year in a semester. Same thing with math, with either second year algebra or geometry, I can think of what was missing. And the professor never spoke English when I walked in the class. So [Laughter] you know—

	H:	That had to be tough.



	M:	So I had to find a school that didn’t require a foreign language which turned out to be Adelphi and Hofstra. But Hofstra accepted me first, so I went to Hofstra. And so after three years of music scholarship, I took an elective acting course and got an A. And it was easy, and so I asked the director of the theatre department if I could switch and bring my scholarship with me. And he said yeah. So I had to go another year though, because I needed to eventually have to take Spanish in that side of the program at Hofstra. So I switched and went an additional year of college, and I got my degree in theatre. B.A. in Theatre Arts.

	H:	And from there, what happened?



	M:	Well from there I turned professional. Actually before I graduated, I used to— every time I went in an audition in those days, I got the part. So—

	H:	And where were you auditioning and what types of roles—



	M:	In New York, ‘cause I was still living in Harlem with my mother, and then I finally got my own apartment ‘cause I had gotten married to my high school sweetheart, Bertha Mae Douglas. We were living in New York, we got married in New York





and were living in New York in the same building as my mother. She was on the first floor, well the second floor, and I was on the third floor. And so I used to travel from Harlem to Hempstead every day and that took me two hours one way and two hours to get home.

	H:	You went to Hempstead for what reason? M:	That’s where Hofstra was.

	H:	Oh—



	M:	[Laughter] And they didn’t have any dormitories at the time. So it took me four hours of travelling a day to go to college. Up until my senior year when I finally got a car. But I always pretty much my whole college career lived in Harlem and travelled back and forth to Hempstead, ‘cause I had to catch three subways and two buses to get there, and the same thing to come home everyday.

	H:	Well that indicates a very high level of motivation and dedication. [Laughter]



	M:	Well my mother was smart, my mother knew that if I started, I wasn’t a quitter. So even though I didn’t wanna go to college, once she convinced me to go and start, take a few classes at City College and all that, now I got to get the degree. So I had no choice. And she and I would have arguments back and forth, so I finally had to get a job and work and so I got a job at Children’s Center in New York which was called Children’s Center, down on Fifth Avenue and 104th Street. And I worked from eleven at night until seven in the morning. And then I just go to school all day, and then work, and then rehearse the plays and stuff I was in until 11:00, 10:00 or so and then come back to New York and go straight to my job.

So—





	H:	It doesn’t sound like it was any sleep in there. [Laughter]



	M:	Well I learned to sleep in chairs like this. Because at night, once you put the kids to bed, it was just sitting there watching TV and stuff. You make sure that—and I had the seniors, I had from fifteen to like eighteen year olds, so they stayed up a little longer and sometimes they tried to slip out. But you could kinda be half sleep and you’d hear your supervisor’s feet come down the hall and you’d kinda wake up and say, “Yeah, I’m watching TV. I’m fine.” But it was a home for wayward kids who didn’t have anywhere else to go, or the court sent them there temporarily. It was a temporary shelter for them, the whole building was. And they lived there, you know, and they had them from all ages. I just got assigned to the older ones, fortunately, and so I worked there to help pay my way through college while I was going. But all my homework and stuff was done, if I didn’t go to sleep, was done on the bus and subways, going back and forth. Especially when I got into theatre, I didn’t know how much time theatre took up, and the rehearsals, cause I remember one night, even in the student production I was in, we were rehearsing and we finished about midnight. I said, “Man, I hope the last bus hadn’t gone.” He said, “Where you going?” I said, “Home!” he said, “No, we’re getting ready to rehearse again from the top”. [Laughter] I said, “What?!” He said, “Yeah, um—we got to do this again.” So when the sun was coming up the next morning, I never made it back home that day. So I learned at that point in time what was involved in theatre. And how long it took in rehearsals and all that kind of stuff. Because also I used to have to go late at night and catch that bus on Hempstead Turnpike, and there was no shelter, and that wind would be





whipping through there, waiting on, waiting for an hour on that bus to come and take me into town because the school bus had stopped running that time of night. The school bus would take you from the campus to the bus station in Hempstead, because for some reason the law wouldn’t allow the Hempstead bus to come to campus. So it would only go to the bus station, but they did have a bus from Hofstra that would take you to Hempstead bus station, where you would switch and get on the—well you couldn’t get on the bus there, you’d still have to walk four to five blocks. Cause some reason, the B-line which ran from the Queens subway to Hempstead, they wouldn’t let them come to the bus station.

And the Hofstra bus left from the station, so every time I’d take these two hours, I’d have to get of downtown Hempstead, walk five or six blocks to the bus terminal, to get the school bus. And the same thing coming back. Now why they wouldn’t let them park or come to the bus station, I guess is all politics. But that’s what I had to do.

	H:	So do you think that growing up in Newtown, in a segregated situation, in which I suspect mostly Black teachers—

	M:	All Black teachers.



	H:	Do you think that that helped build the kind of character that you’re talking about you had?

	M:	Absolutely. Absolutely.



	H:	Are you, do you remember any of your teachers? M:	Absolutely.

	H:	Can you tell me any of their names?





	M:	Miss Daley. Ed James’ mother, Ms. McElroy was our second grade teacher. Ms.



Daley actually is still alive, I think I saw her at Ronnie Major’s funeral. When I went to his, my cousin Ronnie, Uncle Can’s son, one of my brothers. My father had three brothers—Adobe, Fat, and Can. [Laughter]

	H:	I suspect those are nicknames! [Laughter]



M:  Yeah, they’re nicknames. But that’s how we knew them. But yeah, they were the backbone for all of us. And its why we are so special in why we keep saying, the Class of [19]57 was the best class that ever graduated from Booker High School.

	H:	And why is that?



	M:	We were just, I guess we were all born at a time, around the same time when, I guess gone had sprinkled some dust on Sarasota or something, I dunno. [Laughter] But anyway, we just all kinda had that attitude. We were the best, we were the champions, we were the leaders. Good or bad, ‘cause we did a few things that we should have been in jail for, but we were protected. And to this day, we didn’t take no mess from other students from Jacksonville or wherever when they tried to come in and run over us, or take our girls, or whatever. But the teachers always cared about you. And instilled those values in you and it was, again, going back to that community where it takes a village to raise—it was, first of all everybody was involved, most of them spread out or went to church with you, or your church, or some of the classmates’ churches. They all shopped at the same stores. And it was a time when you got them whippings, that oak tree across the street from my house. They can today try to say child abuse, or all that stuff, but I never let White folks define my culture. And don’t judge us by your





culture, if you don’t understand my culture. First of all, you don’t know how to raise kids anyway, ‘cause most of our parents raised yours. I know my grandmother and my aunts and all worked in your house and raised your kids. So, how can you now tell them, those kids tell us how to raise ours? When Black folks raised yours, okay? So don’t give me that mess.

	H:	You raise a very good point there.



	M:	So it was all kind of a situation at Booker where everybody cared. If you did something, there was always, always some adult who saw you. I used to try to stop on the way to school at my girlfriend’s, thinking nobody’s looking, and I never forget that morning when my name got called on the loudspeaker in the school. And the principal, Mr. Rogers, said, “Anthony Major!” ‘Cause he had a voice like Paul Robeson. “Bertha Mae Douglas, come to my office, please. I understand you made a detour on the way to school. Don’t lie to me, boy.” So out comes that belt, which was a belt from, a fan belt from a car that they cut in half. And you had a choice—you could take it in the hand or the butt. Of course, she got talked to instead, and got sent back to class. I’m the one who [Laughter] got those lashes. But, when you go home, your grandmother’s sitting there waiting on you with one of those oak limbs from ‘cross the street. So you didn’t do that again, okay? So everybody was family. I mean, I was raised not only by my grandmother and I was the only child in that sense, I had a brother that was born and raised in New York with my mother. But I didn’t grow up with him. I knew him, he came down, but there was another couple of houses that I spent most of my time. One was Eleanor Houston’s house who was like my sister. She lives in





Georgia, she went to Tennessee State and a couple other places. But she taught school for a while, she’s retired now. But her parents, Mama Jo I called her, and Mister Alfred and Mama Jo raised me because I was at they house sometimes so late they’d just put me in bed. My grandmother knew, because first of all they had the first television, black and white television. We used to run down there and watch Nat King Cole and the fights, and so forth. But I was always hanging around their house and—

	H:	Where did they live?



	M:	Right down the street. On the corner. H:	What’s the name of the street?

	M:	Twenty-fourth Street and Orange Avenue.



	H:	Where did your grandmother live. Do you remember the address?



	M:	On Twenty-fourth. Yeah, 1690 24th Street. Yeah, 1690 24th Street, I think. The house is not there now, it’s a vacant lot. My mother and I gave it to my uncle, her brother and his wife. ‘Cause she was so nice to him and eventually both of them died and the rest of the family lost it or something, you know. But we sold it, we had—one thing about Black folks in the town, sort of like Eatonville, they owned the property. And we would have additional houses that we would rent out. Like my grandmother had two additional houses in lots next to ours that she would rent out to people. In fact, one of my professors lived in the house, one of the house that was behind us. You know. For a long time. And so the people owned the property and owned the stuff. The other place that I stayed a lot was Miss Isabel Baker, Stewart Baker, who started me to playing the clarinet, she had





hmm—seven kids, I think? Lets see—seven or eight. And they all went to college, except for one who decided to go to the military. And I used to be at her house all the time ‘cause Barbara was the second oldest, and so we kinda—we all went to the same church. ‘Cause my—

	H:	Which church?



	M:	Hurst Chapel. My family, along with a couple of others, built that church. The Humphreys, my family, Porters, you know the Henry Porter, who has the church there now. He was a little baby then, but his brother was in my class. His sister was in the same class with Barbara, and they were related. And then I mentioned Buck O’Neal, the O’Neals, they were members of that church. Even though they had a pool hall up on the corner [Laughter] where my father and them used to go up there and gamble, play cards and stuff, and shoot pool. But the O’Neal Pool Hall. But the O’Neals—

	H:	And where was that? ‘Cause we’re kinda trying to place where things were—



	M:	It’s Dixie, I think its called Dixie Avenue. It’s the next street over from the corner.



The corner is right there at Twenty-seventh Street now and what’s that other street? It’s not Orange Avenue. It’s—I can’t remember the street. Just the main drag, its just that corner. Humphrey’s had a drug store and it was right on that corner. So my mother used to sell fish on Saturdays to raise money for the church. So he would give her a line that she could put a light out there, and the whole thing on Saturday was to come by and buy those mullet fish sandwiches and Nehi sodas, you know.

	H:	Outside the pharmacy?





	M:	Yes. On the corner there, there was a lot, and next to, outside on the corner he would extend her a line, to hang a light. Cause on Saturday I had to get up and scale those fish, and open them up and clean them. You know all those mullets. And—that’s why I love mullet. So we’d go to the movies—we had a home theater called the Ace Theater. Overtown. And come back with that pick up and my grandma would save me. She always sell out, so she’d save me a sandwich, you know. I’d get that fish sandwich and go home with my grape or orange Nehi. [Laughter]

	H:	So this theatre, it was for all Blacks? M:	All Blacks.

	H:	Yeah. ‘Cause we wouldn’t go to the White theaters so we had out own called the Ace theatre which was in Overtown, its now a church I think, if its still there. It may not even be still there. I know it was there for years but it was off of Central Avenue and I think was it Sixth, Fifth Street. I think its Fifth Street. Cause the bus ran on Sixth Street, and there was an ice house on Sixth Street on the corner.

Sixth Street and Central. So Central runs all the way downtown to Sarasota.



	H:	Speaking of downtown. Did you ever go downtown to shop, or— M:	Yeah, we went.

	H:	So what kinds of experiences did you have right there?



	M:	Well you cross the street if a White woman’s coming down the street. You knew to cross the street. We could not go to Lido Beach. We could not go to Longboat Key. To go to the beach we either had to go to Venice or all the way up to the Sunshine Skyway and swim. I guess they thought we [were] going to make the





sand black, or something. ‘Cause Lido had the whitest sand in the world, it was rated as one of the top beaches with the whitest sand in the world. But we couldn’t swim there. But when we went downtown, you’d go in your shop. Of course you couldn’t try dresses on, you couldn’t do this, you couldn’t do that. But like I said, my class of [19]57 were the renegades. We would go cause some fuss somewhere.

	H:	Did you participate in any of the sit-ins?



	M:	That was after my time. I was in New York already. We sat in, we just on our own would go. You know me, Biggie, was a Mastermind. [Laughter] He knew how to build the firebombs, so we would firebomb stuff anyway.

	H:	Stores?



	M:	No, people that we thought mistreated us. And I remember one night going to this drive in type place, you know, that has the big glass in the front of it like a frosty or a hot dog, that kind of place, and sodas. And they wouldn’t serve us. Well—[Laughter] they got served! I’ll put it that way! And we were just, all of us, it was like one-for-one and all-for-all, and one-for-all. We didn’t let anybody mess with anybody in our class. Otherwise they had to deal with all of us. And nobody, I don’t recall anyone not participating. I mean some are now preachers, of course. [Laughter] Some found the Lord. I mean we all did, we all had to go to church everyday, all day, all week. Stay there all day on Sunday. But we would just go. We just wouldn’t take it.

	H:	It sounds like that was kind of a build up to what came later— M:	Oh absolutely.





	H:	The more organize sit-ins and things like that.



	M:	Yeah, except some of the classes behind us were kind of, ehh. They didn’t have the attitude like we had. We got upset with the school—you know every year, the senior class leaves a gift to the school. Guess what we left, the class of [19]57?

	H:	What?



	M:	Some garbage cans.



	H:	And that was symbolic of?



	M:	Garbage. [Laughter] That we thought we had been treated like garbage. H:	At the school?

	M:	Yeah, ‘cause one of our—they didn’t want two of our classmates to march and graduate with us.

	H:	And why not?



	M:	Well they claimed they hadn’t graduated. [Laughter] So we picketed. We said, “Either they march, or we don’t march. None of us gonna march.” So they marched. But they were allowed to march with us but they had to stay another year to graduate. But they marches with us. We wasn’t gon’ let them march with that class behind us, or any other class. We’d been together since Kindergarten and so—

	H:	Real friends.



	M:	Yeah. To this day! The ones who are still alive, to this day. It’s the same, it doesn’t change. Raynell keeps track of everybody, Grimes. And she, Jetson’s wife. Jetson, we let him in. He had to get permission to marry Raynell. Otherwise





we wasn’t gonna let him marry her. You too—what are you doing messing with her? Our classmate. Anyway.

	H:	He wasn’t in your class?



	M:	He was a year behind us. The little, class of [19]58. [Laughter] But he’s okay, he earned his dues. He paid his dues, you know.

	H:	So when you were flying out, another thing I wanted to ask you about was medical services. If you got sick was there a hospital you could go to, or—

	M:	Well I was born in Sarasota hospital. So yes, we did go to the hospital.



Unfortunately, a nurse named me before my mother got a chance to name me. I guess she fell in love with this baby boy, you know. But my original name was Andrew Jackson, so my mother had to go to Tallahassee to actually get it changed. She said, “I never intended to name my child no Andrew Jackson.”

	H:	No, especially knowing who he is! Or was!



	M:	Andrew Jackson. So she had to go through the whole legal thing in Tallahassee to give me my rightful name.

	H:	And that, your name is—



	M:	Anthony Benjamin Major. Not no Andrew Jackson. I’m glad they changed it. H:	I’m glad they did, too! [Laughter]

	M:	But no, I was born in Sarasota Hospital. So we had care, there was some caring doctors. And we had Black doctors, we had lawyers. I remember Dozier was one of the lawyers that my grandmother had for years. I mean, there were some good White folks, don’t get me wrong. The lady who drove the bus, I don’t remember her name now, but all her sons played baseball with us. And we just had to go to





separate schools. But I remember, ‘cause we grew up playing with the White kids and so forth. Myself, M.C., Moses Healy, who was like the greatest athlete to ever go to Booker. Who could play any ping pong, swimming, basketball, baseball, football, track—you name it, it didn’t matter. You know, he was just good at everything. And I got him and myself and a few others and we went down to train. The Sarasota Herald used to hold a baseball clinic, because the Boston Red Sox was on quarters there at the time. There’s someone else now.

But they had Ted Williams used to live there, off season and stuff. They would run a clinic where they’d teach all of us how to play baseball. And there’d never been any Blacks. So again here, me and myself and M.C. and all us who was in my class, we all got a couple of ball players and we went about six or seven of us, and they treated us like they did the White kids. And so Early Wynn, who was a Hall of Fame baseball player, Lew Berdette, Boston Red Sox. Actually I got a chance to meet Honus Wagner, he was like one of the all time great baseball players. And he was there, giving instruction, and so was Ted Williams. And we learned how to play the game the right way. All positions. And I got chosen to start the All Star Game. I didn’t pitch but one inning, the first guy fouled out and I struck out the next two. And then he took me out. But Early Wynn told me I could make it. He taught me how to throw everything the same motion, so the batter would never know what type ball was coming. Whether curve ball, slider, fast ball. But like I said there were some good folks in that town, because what happened—it wasn’t really like Mississippi or other places. Why? Because I said Whites who would come there in the winter from the North, and it was an arts





colony, and Ringling Brothers was there. We were called Circus City because that was the winter home of the Ringling Circus. In fact, we used to go to the circus every Sunday. We’d just walk over and go to the circus ‘cause we could get in free and watch the—when Ringling would go on the road, the people who didn’t make the circus would stay there and practice and hold circuses. And so we used to go to that. Whereas the pros would go—I mean they all pros, but the people who didn’t make the Big Top, they would go out, because we would know what season it was because behind our elementary school was the train track.

And you could see this long Ringling Brothers train leaving and coming home based on the season. So we know it was time, like to go to school, or to get out of school in the Spring, you know? But we would go to Ringling Brothers circus. And they would help out. They brought us a trampoline, showed us how to jump on it, and so forth. And teach us. But like I said, not all White folks, we had some good ones who helped out and wanted to help. Just it was the system that was keeping them, because the majority ruled and that’s what it was. There was no integration, we didn’t have it. So we had a few and medically we had. Again, the pharmacy was right there. It was a pharmacy drug store, so you could go there and get sandwiches and soda fountains and that kinda stuff—

	H:	And who owned that pharmacy?



	M:	Humphreys. Yeah, it was Humphrey’s drugs. Like I said, he was the one that also—

	H:	Was he White, or Black?





	M:	Black. Its all Black. There were no White folks owning anything in Newtown. Not at that time. It was all Black owned. That’s why I say, integration was one of the worst things that ever happened to us. Because we didn’t integrate, we assimilated. And its interesting because the students here on campus had that discussion about a month ago, or a little less. About assimilation and integration, and what was it like? So I try to explain to my students today that, even though I lost a good friend when I said that one day. He went off on me. “You got to be crazy!” And I say man, look at it. Really look at it. We didn’t do what the Jewish people do, okay. Which is what we should do. They got Yeshiva University, why can’t we have Black universities? Everybody say I’m a get rid of the Black universities, well nobody tells them to get rid of Yeshiva. And nobody tells them, dare tell them to get rid of their culture, or forget the Holocaust. So why should we forget slavery?

	H:	And not have Hebrew school on the weekends.



	M:	Hello, okay. So I mean, we should have ours. They became a part of the American culture, but they kept their own. You see? So why can’t we? And why do we have to be like them in order to survive? No, you can do what you need to do. But they take it when its necessary—they use it, make money off of it. You know, they do cornrows and fat lips and big butts when its advantageous to them. They steal our songs. I remember when people did this—you remember, they got in trouble! High five-in! I can’t go to a football game now; the White folks want to high-five me. Where’d it come from?

	H:	Just, the fist pump and the president and the first lady.





	M:	Please, you know.



	H:	There was a big to-do about that, now everybody is doing that. M:	Exactly.

	H:	It’s more sanitary anyway. M:	Right! [Laughter]

	H:	You got that right!



	M:	I wanna hear, I wanna hear more about your career as an actor, director. So I wanna kinda get the chronology going. So you got parts in New York. Was there any special genre that you were—

	H:	Shakespeare. Believe it or not. In high school I used to always call myself Shakespeare because I didn’t know who Shakespeare was. I just heard the name Shakespeare. But when I got to Hofstra I learned that there was a Shakespearean school, a theatre department had Shakespearean experts. In fact, my chair was a Shakespearean expert. Dr. Bernard Beckham, and he started the theatre department at Columbia University after he left Hofstra. So I got schooled in Shakespeare. So my first professional job was with the New York Shakespeare festival and Joseph Papp, at the Shakespeare festival. I went and I did my soliloquy and he hired me. And I got hired before I graduated. So the day that I marched, I had to go to work that morning in Shakespeare in the Park that summer, and go march, and go back to work for thirty-five dollars a week, okay? But it got me my equity card, and he became a mentor for me. Because I didn’t think, thirty-five dollars I’m not important, so I don’t have to—He smoked a cigar, he took me for a walk one day in Central Park. He said, “Tony,” and he schooled





me. And I was never late after that. It was a flat tire, or this or that happened, and he said, “I don’t care what, you got to be here.” And now we had rehearsal that Sunday, the day of the graduation. So I went to him, and I said, “Mr. Papp, my mother—I mean.” He said, “What time is it?” I said, “Well it starts at—“ He said, “Okay. You come in, you work two hours, you leave at this time, you be back by this time.” So when we marched all my friends are standing around and doing stuff and I said, “I gotta go!” [Laughter] What do you mean you gotta go? I said, “I gotta go back to work.” And so, ‘cause I went to school with Francis Ford Coppola. I went to school with Susan Sullivan. There was a group called the Uncalled-For 3, which were a popular comic group. There was a guy who used to do take-off theatre. The Uncalled-For, no that was the Players Uncalled-For, Players. But there was a—Charles Ludlam, was famous in New York for having a kind of off-beat, off the cuff type Shakespeare theatre in the Village. And he was my classmate. Now Francis was a couple years ahead of me, in a sense, because remember I had to go two years additional, or a year additional, whatever. So he graduated in [19]62 from Hofstra. He’s from Long Island.

	H:	And what year did you graduate from—



	M:	[19]64. And so, Susan Sullivan was in my class. She was the Tylenol lady for years. And she was on Falcon Crest, she was Maggie on Falcon Crest for years. And she is now on Caste. She plays Castle’s mother. Okay. She started out as a Playboy bunny, I don’t know if she tells anybody that. [Laughter] But no, she used to do Shakespearean stuff, and she used to invite me to come and watch her productions and critique her, ‘cause she knew I’d be honest with her and not





tell her, “Oh yeah, you did great!” I was gonna tell her what she did, she’s a great actress. But all of the students thought I had studied acting some place, ‘cause I got the only Aid Award that they had given in eight years. So they’d ask, “Where did you study?” Because they all had studied in acting schools, and through school and high school and all that. And I said, this my first time acting that I know to call it acting. But Sarasota taught me how to act. And chasing girls. [Laughter] ‘Cause I had to talk my way out of a couple things that happened in high school. Anyway, I got called out, not me, but the whole football team got called out in school. So I had to smooth that over. So I didn’t know I was acting. But one thing that let me know in college that I was pretty good at it, aside from the Aid, was acting in the subway one day with this young lady and I cried on call. And afterwards, I broke out laughing about it. Because I needed those tears at that moment, and I could make them come. And I said “Yeah” I guess people in the subway thought I was crazy. Well of course New York. [Laughter] But I said, I could go in there and bring this out whenever I feel like it. And so maybe that’s why I started getting all these parts. But like I said, Shakespeare festival gave me my equity card. And at that time, if you kept an equity card for a year you could go join SAG [Screen Actors Guild], which I did. But I started working, and then I worked in the Negro Ensemble company, before it became the Negro Ensemble Company. They had two shows, called “Happy Ending” and “Day of Absence.” And Robert Hooks and Douglas Turner Ward. And when I went in to take over Robert Hooks’ part, well actually Bill Jay. Bill Jay took over who was a very very good friend of mine from Omaha. He took over, he was in the original





ensemble company. But before the ensemble company, Douglas Turner Ward had done an article for the New York Times, about Black theatre. And then the Ford Foundation saw the article, brought him in, and had him come up and they gave him this grant. But it came after two and a half years of “Happy Ending” and “Day of Absence” running successfully in the Village, in his theatre. And so along during that time, I took over the lead in, “Happy Ending” and took over one of the parts in, “Day of Absence.” And when I took it over James Earl Jones came in to play the mayor of “Day of Absence.” But I had worked with Jimmy, so that’s where I met Bill Jay. We both were carrying spears behind Jimmy in “Othello” in Central Park. My first professional job in the Shakespeare festival was “Hamlet,” and my second job was, “Othello,” starring James Earl Jones, who married all of his Desdemona’s [Laughter] any time he played Othello. But anyway, that’s another story. But acting in the Negro Ensemble Company, and James Earl was there, he came and asked me would I take his place in, “Raisin in the Sun.” He was supposed to go to his hometown in Grand Rapids, Michigan, but he got this part to go play a movie in Africa with Liz Taylor and Richard Burton. Because when we were doing “Hamlet” in Central Park, Burton was doing Broadway “Hamlet.” And his understudy took over, and then we had a part in Central Park, because they were all friends with the guy playing it, and they came over to Central Park, and I got a chance to meet Liz Taylor—and Richard Burton, actually. But what happened was, he asked me to go do. “Raisin in the Sun.” So the millionaire that had the money came that Saturday night while we were closing that Sunday. That Saturday night he came to watch the performance.





And afterwards he told Jimmy, “Yeah. He could come.” That I could come. So Monday I was on a plane going to Grand Rapids, Michigan, to take James Earl Jones’ place. And its interesting because they kept everything the same they had planned, they didn’t change any plans. So I’m on the plane, and the stewardess says, “Can you wait a minute until everybody gets off the plane?” I said [Laughter], “What did I do?” Then when everybody got off the plane I come off, there’s a red carpet, there’s the mayor, there’s the director, the theatre. All of that. They had the opening night ceremony and the party and stuff. The one guy came up and said, “You know we didn’t want you. We wanted James Earl Jones.” I said, “Well I’m a do the best I can, okay?” So, after the opening night, he came back to me and he said, “Yeah, I’m glad.” He said, “You did OK.” And I said, “Yes.” And so, they featured me just like they featured him. And so when I came back from there, I’m trying to think what was next. I know I went to Broadway. In fact, the Sarasota paper did a thing called, “From Booker to Broadway.”

	H:	And what year was that?



	M:	I’d have to look it up, my reviews. I think I have it over there. Yeah, I do have it over there. The paper from the, that has the review in it. I laminated it, because you know Booker has a rehearsal hall named after me.

	H:	Really? I didn’t know that.



	M:	Yeah, Booker. I have a copy of it up there, Anthony “Tony” Major Rehearsal Hall, which is in the new Booker Performing Arts Center. Yeah, and then the article





was, “From Booker to Broadway.” It was a play called, “We Interrupt This Program” that I did on Broadway. Let me—[looks for review]—2001. June 2001.

	H:	Nice, nice.



	M:	So this was an article, this young lady did in the Sarasota Herald Tribune.



Excuse me. So I went to Broadway, I went Off-Broadway. I did several things Off- Broadway, shows Off-Broadway. Then I went to Broadway. And unfortunately this show didn’t last, because it was a show that I always wanted to make into a film, I always wanted to do here at UCF. But it was written by the Neil Simon of his day, back in the [19]40s. And his guy write this piece and it was a difficult piece for the audience to endure. It was a light little comedy type thing; I don’t want to take it—its not a dark piece at all. But it was just about, “We Interrupt This Program” by a group of Blacks who come into the theatre. In fact, in that play was Melvin Van Peebles actually. But then for some reason they got rid of Melvin after the first week and they brought in Dick Anthony Williams to take his place. And so we opened the show actually with Dick Anthony Williams. And it was an audience participation type show. And we opened, I remember the opening part. It was Howard Cosell and all the big New York Times writers and the folks that were there for it. But like I said, it didn’t last too long because the plot was something you didn’t wanna give away, which is why we didn’t take it on tour first, to iron out some of the—And then, I started working at the Children’s Center. No, Children’s Center was during college. I started working at the Children’s—I can’t think of the name of it now. But it was a center in the projects in New York, the housing projects. Steven Foster Houses they called it at the





time. So again, me and my students got together and we got the city to change the name from Steven Foster to—what is it called now? It was a historical Black figure, I know. They got it changed from Steven—they said, “We don’t wanna grow up in no Steven Foster Houses.” You know. [Laughter] So they changed it. But I started there the Tony Major Teen Theatre. And at the same time Robert Hooks was starting his little theatre in the Negro Ensemble Company down in the Village. And so I had mostly girls in the theatre at the time. In fact, one of them just found me. She said I been looking for you for forty years. Please say that you are him, or don’t tell me. [Laughter] So Judy, she’s a lawyer now. And so I said yes, this is me. She was my best little actress, she was twelve at the time, so she was a little young to work in the film. But from that I started this theatre and we toured Manhattan, the five boroughs of Manhattan, and even played the Apollo theatre with, “Happy Ending.” And its really ironic because the opening of “Happy Ending,” the two females that were there, which was initially played by Esther Rolle from “Good Times.” And they’re crying. So these young ladies at the stage of the Apollo were so scared that they were shedding real tears, you know? [Laughter] Because we were on a show with Bobby Blue Bland and B. B. King.

So imagine trying to put a play in the middle of that type of an audience. And they are hollering and screaming, “We don’t want no play! We ain’t come to see no play! Play, what’s a play! We come here to see B. B. King!” But Honey Coles would come out and say, “Just be cool, man. You ain’t paying nothing extra. This is just an extra thing we decided to do, okay? Give the youngsters a break, alright?” And sure enough, by the time we got through it they got four standing





ovations. Four standing ovations. But that was the Tony Major teen theatre that I had in existence, and we did quite well with it for a while. And so one day I picked up the newspaper to find jobs and there was an ad from Warner Brothers saying they needed youngsters for this new movie they were doing. And so I just picked up the phone and called Warner Brothers, the number and I said, “Hello, I heard you’re looking for some minority students. I got ‘em! Don’t look any further.” And they said, “Well when can I see ‘em?” I said, “When you wanna see ‘em?” I said, “I have class tonight at seven.” They said, “We’ll be there.” I said, “Oh! Ok!” “Gimme the address.” I gave him the address, he came up to Harlem, Fifth Avenue and 115th Street. Which at that time was one of the top drug streets in America. ‘Cause if it was New York, it was America, OK? At that time, from river to river. And that afternoon though I had, I was coaching the softball team. And I only had one guy in the acting thing, who wanted to be an actor. And so I told the guys in the softball team, “If you want to be on my starting lineup, come to class tonight.” So they did. I whispered in their ears, gave them stuff to do, and taught them how to act like, ad-lib. Black folks can act, anyway. So they did, the scout came. And he saw them and the girls I had. The next day he said, “The producer and director wanna see them. Can you bring them downtown?” So I herded us all on the subway, and headed downtown to meet Bob Mulligan and Alan Pakula, who were Academy Award winning directors and producers. They had done, “To Kill A Mockingbird,” the classic, “To Kill A Mockingbird.” And they were doing this film in New York called, “Up the Down Staircase.” So they did the same thing, I said, “Guys, just do the same thing you did yesterday, last night. Do it today.”





And they did, the next day I get a call from Bob Mulligan saying, “We want to go to lunch, talk to you.” “I said “Okay.” so I go to lunch. Sitting there, and they said we want to hire you to handle all of the teenagers in the movie. ‘Cause we don’t want to see ‘em! [Laughter] And they did. And nine of my students in the class were in the movie, in Sandy Dennis’ homeroom, because I got to pick who said what lines in the movie. So I had to train the non-actors on the set. I had ‘bout two hundred of them every day on the set of “Up the Down Staircase.” And I never forget, I remember Burt Lancaster came by the set. I remember Jet Magazine came and did an article on me, which is on Jet Magazine. And they were treating me like I was the director, you know. And of course, me, taking over, I didn’t know—it was my first film. So one day I almost got fired, I think the first or second day ‘cause I hollered, “Cut!” And luckily Bob Mulligan pulled me over, he said, “Tony. Don’t you ever holler cut on my set again.” I said, “Well you told me—“ He said, “Don’t you ever.” [Laughter] “I’m the director, OK.” So I had seen this little White boy with this bright red jacket on standing next to Sandy Dennis. She got on the bus, but he didn’t get on the bus. Now, we shoot the scene where she gets off the bus, now he’s right next to her again.” So I said that couldn’t happen, you now what I mean? So “Cut!” [Laughter] Don’t do that.

	H:	You getting a little too big.



	M:	You getting a little too big. He said, “On the first day, first week of movie.” I say, “Well you told me—“ He said “Nah.” But he was nice, and I never did that again. But I was able to learn, he mentored me, in fact he even had me take his children to the Beatles concert at Shea Stadium. He didn’t wanna go, so he said “Will you





take them?” I said, “Yeah, I’ll take them.” So I took his children to the concert, the Beatles performed at Yankee Stadium. So that’s how I got into the film business. Now the mayor of New York had said when you finish that, you go back to your regular job. But I decided not to, I decided—

	H:	And your regular job was—



	M:	Fixing pool sticks, downstairs in the activity center for this. I say, I didn’t get a college degree to fix—they shoot pool and the tip would come off, and you gotta glue it back on and put it—that’s what made me start the theatre, because I said I need to have a theatre, and they had a vacant room downstairs. And I asked he director could I start? He said yeah, but I don’t have any money, but yeah you can start. And so I did, I had the students go out and get some wood that was left over from a concert. And one of the girls’ father had some lights, from, photography lights. And they were painting the building. So we got a bucket of black paint from the painters and painted the stage and area black and hung the curtains. And started the theater. We did shows and plays and stuff, you know.

But I decided at that point to go out on my own on talent, and see if it works. So from “Up the Down Staircase,” I don’t know how many years later, I ran into a friend of mine named Hal De Windt. He used to be on the Duke Pomade Hair thing because he had the slick hair and the light skin, and stuff. Before Shaft, before Richard Roundtree, you know, [he] was on it. And anyway, he told me about this project with Harry Belafonte. And so, Harry Belafonte was trying to find some Blacks in film behind-the-scenes, and he couldn’t find any. And he went to the DGA [Directors Guild of America], and they didn’t have any. And so he





started his own apprenticeship program that I became a part of. So I went back to making a hundred dollars a week, but I was able to work with Harry Belafonte and he became my mentor, one of my mentors and I learned how to produce film. Because the producer and the production manager was Kenny Utt. Kenny Utt became famous for doing Philadelphia story, all of the films that the director that directed that did, he was part of that. And some huge films, and so he taught me production along with Hal Shalfold, and then that’s where I met—again, a set of friends that are friends of mine to this day. Ed DeSisso, Gil Lewis, a couple of them have passed away now. Gil has and so has a few of the others. But we became tight and became filmmakers. And out of that, Drake Walker had written this script ‘cause I came up with the idea to do a Black Western. There had been no Black Westerns. And he said, “Oh, I got a script!” So he brought it in, we worked on it, and that became the movie that Harry and Sidney and Ruby Dee did, called “Buck and the Preacher.” So that came out of our little group. Me, DeSisso, Drake Walker, and Gil Lewis. We were the writers, in a sense. And so, but Drake like I said already had the script, and the lead character was called Buck and the other one was called the Preacher. It was called, “Black Asp” before, A-S-P, because he was called Snake, his nickname was Snake. That’s why the film was named that initially but they changed the name once we took the script to Harry, he took it to Sidney, and the rest is history. And it was Sidney’s first directing job. So after that, the production manager then took me on with them on the next film called, “The Landlord,” where I met Beau Bridges. And Beau Bridges and I became friends. So when I went to LA I stayed with Beau





Bridges for a while when I first went for a time. And from “The Landlord” Mulligan and Pakula came again to do “Pursuit of Happiness.” So they asked me to work with them again. So I worked with them again on a film called, “Pursuit of Happiness.” And so 1970, I went on my motorcycle to California. And when I got there, I found this brick wall that was not visible in New York. Where they needed you, they worked with you—when I got there, it was very difficult to get in to see them. After they said, “Well come to Hollywood, blah blah blah blah.”

	H:	So Bridges wasn’t in Hollywood? He wasn’t on the West Coast?



	M:	Yeah, Beau as fine. But he wasn’t a producer director at the time, he was an actor. So he couldn’t help me. The people who could help me were the people I helped do “The Landlord,” “Up the Down Staircase,” “Pursuit of Happiness,” which was Bob Mulligan, Hal Ashby. Now they did, I must admit, after that I worked on, “The French Connection” also with Bill Friedkin. You know Gene Hackman won the Academy Award and “The French Connection” was a huge film. So I got a chance to—‘cause again, all these people who I been working with, you make friends with them. And when they go to the next film, they bring you with them. So it becomes like a family and a team. And so, even though I was working on the films, I wasn’t in the union so I wasn’t getting any of the credit for, unfortunately. So the DGA still wouldn’t give me credit. And like I said, I had, “Up the Down Staircase,” these are all major motion pictures, Academy Award winners. “Up the Down Staircase,” “The Landlord,” “Pursuit of Happiness,” “The French Connection,” I mean, come on! But I still couldn’t get in the union. And





“The Angel Levine,” with Belafonte. So I had put in all of these hours and I couldn’t get in the union.

	H:	Why is that?



	M:	It was “old boy.” It was closed. Until they started the DGA program, which is training program, which is the result of what Harry did. Because they set up their program to keep us out of it. And they went to Princeton and got these questions that had nothing to do with film. And, of course, we hadn’t been to college, or at least lately, and so the only person to pass the test the first time was Dwight Williams, who became a very good production manager for the First A.D., the production manager, and the producer. ‘Cause he had just graduated from Temple, but he had worked on film. So he didn’t know much about film at the time than we did, ‘cause we had been trained by Harry, right? And I had already done four films, so anyway when I go to LA, nobody would say anything. So on my motorcycle I decided to go to ‘Frisco. I called Francis Ford Coppola, he was at Zoetrope. And I went by his office, and I’m sitting there talking to him and he wants to show me all of the Zoetrope and all of the new equipment that he was dealing with, with the new digital stuff at the time. And the phone rang! And he stayed on the phone two hours, three hours, you know. He kept apologizing, and I was saying, “I came to see you. So you take as much time as you need.” When he got off the phone, he said to me, “Tony, that was Paramount calling me about directing some movie called “The Godfather.” What should I do?” [Laughter] I said, “Francis—” “No, I’ve never heard of it, what is this Godfather?” And I said its been on the New York Bestseller List for two years, number one, OK? So I think





you should—‘cause he hated Hollywood, that’s why he was in Frisco. But, of course, the rest is history. But then—

	H:	Did you work with him at all?



	M:	No, no. They shot all of that in different places in California and so forth. Now he, I continued on the motorcycle to Fort Bragg, California, which is on the West Coast. And that’s where Mulligan and Pakula was shooting a movie called, “Summer of ’42.” And he told me then, “There’s nothing else I can do for you.

You know, I can’t hire you anymore like that. Basically,” he said, “You either have a hot property or you go back to school.” I didn’t have either. So I told him the next time I see you, I’ll have a gun, it will be loaded and fully cocked, Okay?

That’s what I said to him. I didn’t mean literally a gun. But I was gonna have my stuff together. Okay? So the next time you see me, trust me, you not gone stop me. So, we got back on our motorcycle. There was a young lady on the bike with me. And we got back on the motorcycle and headed north, and it got to snowing so we headed back down through Reno and came back that way. And when I got back I was working with Michael Schultz on his first film. You know he did— what’s the thing about Chicago high schools? With Glynn Turman and Laurence Hilton-Jacobs. But his first film was, “To Be Young, Gifted and Black.” They was shooting with Ruby Dee, in New York, in the Village. Which is right around the corner from NYU. So I remember what Mulligan had said to me about go back to school. So I told DiCisso, I said, “hey man, I’m a walk ‘round here to NYU and see if I can get an application.” So on the break I walked to NYU and they said, “Well, you too late. Application over.” So I looked in their book and I saw Mrs.





Astor was on the Board of Directors. I said, “Well Mrs. Astor sent me,” and they said, “Oh! You didn’t tell us that. Well here, take the application. Can you get it back tomorrow?” I said “Yeah, yeah.” So I stayed up all night filling out the application and I took it back the next day. And then they called me in for the interview, and I got into the NYU Graduate Film School in [19]71, ‘cause then it was two years. So Michael Schultz’s first film was [19]71, [19]70 or [19]71. Which was, “To Be Young, Gifted and Black.” Al Freeman, Jr. was also in it, and the guy from “The French Connection,” that played the second lead, I can’t think of his name right now, but he was in it also. So we kind of helped Mike through it because DeCisso and I had already done films and stuff, and he was learning as he go. So we helped him as much as we could, so like Chiz Schultz, which was a friend of mine, president of Belafonte [Inc.] when I was there. Kinda producing it, along with the writer, Lorraine Hansberry’s husband. So that’s how I ended up going back to school and getting my master’s in film and television from NYU. And while I was at NYU, my first year, I did my thesis, which was a short called, “Off Duty,” about the taxicabs in New York, yellow cabs that won’t pick up Black folks. And every time you see the Off Duty, they’d throw the Off Duty sign up and they wouldn’t pick you up. So I did a movie about that, short, with my friend Bill Jay. And my fiends who I met at NYU, Stu Sheslow, Sandy Tung, and Green— David Green—and we went out and shot this film, a short. So my second year I took the equipment—I was allotted I think, four days or five days, and Stu Sheslow. So he didn’t want to do anything, so I took his five days of equipment, so in nine days I went out and shot my film which is called “Super Spook,” which





had a showing inside Sarasota. I forget what year that was, there’s some articles on that, too. But during the Sarasota Film Festival, I think. And that got distributed nationally and internationally, all over, and now finally its on DVD and people can purchase it online. But it was the first Black comedy during that whole [19]70s Blaxploitation period. And the lead was Leonard Jackson, who was also the lead on “Five on the Black Hand Side.” He was a good New York City actor, so was Bill Jay, who was the villain. My mother played the co-star, she ever acted before but my mother played the “Bag Woman.” And we just grabbed folks, you know. As long as the leads were good actors, and they actually ad-libbed the whole movie. There was no script. The movie was in my head. So I meet with them in the morning, we have a roundtable discussion, and I tell them what needed to be done. And I had figured out what sentence, or what word needed to come through so it would along to the next scene and keep the story going. And so I’d go through that, and they’d ad lib it. At some point they’d say that word or say that sentence or something, and that would make it happen. And then once we got it finished, we didn’t have the money to get the film developed. So it stayed in my closet for about a year, and luckily, we shot it on sixteen millimeter and liquidated it up to thirty-five. But we didn’t have the money ‘cause we shot short ends, what they call short ends. When other movies shoot and they could only use the whole thing, they’d have one hundred feet or two hundred feet left and they’d break it in half and re-sell it. So luckily the film was good, luckily my

D.P. the first time he ever D.P.’ed anything.



	H:	What’s D.P.?





	M:	Director of Photography. And he had worked as an assistant cameraman on another movie I did called, which become a classic, called, “Ganja and Hess.” It was written and directed by Bill Gunn. Bill Gunn is also the one that wrote the script for, “The Landlord” I think and also for, I don’t know if he did “The Angel Levine,” might have did “Angel Levine” also. But I know he did “Ganja and Hess” and he also directed it, and so I was first assistant director on the feature. And it became a classic, you know? In fact, its been taught in certain universities of Black film divisions. In fact, Spike Lee re-did a take-off on it. So that was another film I had done also. And then “Super Spook,” we showed it at the Apollo Theater. And then Warner Brothers took a look at it, and stole some of it, certain scenes that they put in their movies. Uptown Saturday Night was one of them, with Belafonte and Sidney. And the whole thing about “beat the black off you,” and him riding on the hood of the car, which I had in my short. And a couple other of those things that I had. And then they were supposed to give it back after we, they decided to keep it a second week. They said, “Oh no, lets hold on to it! We still looking at it!” So then they held it a second week, and they said, “Oh no, we’re not gonna buy it.” And so eventually ended up with Levitt Pickman, who was an independent producer, distributor, who had this movie called “Groove Tube.” They distributed that, and was supposed to lose money on it. But what happened is the producers of it were smart. It was a TV show they showed in the Village at midnight, every night. So they went out and shot another half hour and attached it to the film and it went to the college campuses, and the college students loved it! And it took off. And so now, they’re making money. And now





they need a tax shelter deal. And so instead of making money with, “Super Spook,” they need to have the tax shelter. They never anticipated “Groove Tube,” none of us did, of taking off the way it did. So anyway, we made a foreign deal, and all of that, with “Super Spook.” So that’s how I ended up doing pretty much my career, until I got into television. And I got into television because Stu Sheslow, the one I told you that was in NYU with me, became a very good friend of mine. And he kind of, I kind of taught him the business, because I had already done four films and he was just starting out and out of grad school. And he got the job at ABC in Hollywood, I had already moved to Hollywood. And he said “Tony, I’m a be your neighbor!” Oh, okay. So he went to Hollywood and he became an executive at ABC. And at ABC they had Silverman. So he worked his way up to become Silverman’s right arm. And he put a lot of hit shows on ABC and made it number one, the network. Then he moved to NBC with Tartikoff, and he put on, “Family Ties,” and the other thing with Tony Danza. You know, a lot of shows that came on, he was responsible for. So, he then got the rights to “The Redd Foxx Show.” ‘Cause we would always say, whoever makes it first will help the other one. So he said, well actually I had called him, ‘cause my friend, she said why don’t you call him? They say he discovered Tony Danza, why about you? I know he ate at my table. [Laughter] So I called him, and he was cool. He called me out, took care of me. And I went out, he couldn’t find me when they were doing the pilot, because I was in Sarasota doing something and he said, “Okay. If you can come out, if we’re picked up, I’ll make sure that something happens.” And he did, and he kept his word. And sure enough the show got





picked up and I became the Assistant Producer on “The Redd Foxx Show,” which is where I met Redd. And Redd and I became friends because as assistant producer, I always tell my students, one day he wanted some coffee. I said, “I’ll go get it for you, Redd. How do you like it?” He said, “Make it the color of Lena Horne”. [Laughter] I hadn’t seen Lena in years! So I go back to craft services and I pour him is coffee, and he said, “Don’t put the sugar. Bring the sugar on the side.” So I said OK, fine. So I’m pouring this coffee, creamer, and I get ready to take it back to him and I say, “I think Lena is a little lighter than that”. [Laughter] So I pour a little more sugar and stirred it, took it back to him and he said, “Perfect!” From then on, I had him. And so the show got cancelled, and I walked over to his office, he said, “What you doing?” I said I’m still acting, and doing some stuff. He said, “Well come work for me.” And he hired me. And I stayed with him and did all his contracts and stuff, he got rid of everybody except me and Prince Spencer, who was one of the original four step-brothers, who just passed away actually, last week, week before last, at ninety-eight. But anyway—

	H:	What are the four stepbrothers? Who were they?



	M:	The four stepbrothers was a dance act team that went on television with Milton Berle. And Milton Berle told them that if they don’t go on, I don’t go on. Same thing with Jerry Lewis. So they were big time, in fact they used to have so much work they used to give work to Sammy Davis, they used to give work to the Nicholas Brothers. ‘Cause when they got their star on Hollywood Boulevard, the Nicholas Brothers, one of them was there, and so was Milton Berle. So was Danny O’Connor, the White dancer. They all came. And the only one alive at the





time was Prince, still alive. Sammy Davis, Jr. was there, when they got the star on Hollywood Boulevard. And they opened up the doors for a lot of dancers and entertainers because Milton Berle and Jerry Lewis. In fact, Jerry Lewis was the godfather for Prince’s son. But he worked for Redd, he was president, and Redd made me Vice President of his corporation. But I did most of the work, you know Prince was even old at that time, and he—I’d pass everything by him, and we’d sit and we’d have a conversation and stuff. But I negotiated all of the contracts and so forth. And when we did “Harlem Nights” I did Redd’s contract. When we did—

	H:	Hmmm. I love that movie. [Laughter]



	M:	That’s the picture, there. On the set, with me and Eddie Murphy on the set of Harlem Nights. But and then the TV show, “The Royal Family,” with Della Reese, was where he had the big one and I was the last person talking to him, which kind of soured me on Hollywood and I just kind of left and came back to the East Coast and started teaching at NYU Graduate Film School. One of my old professors who is now chair of the department, graduate film school, came and said come back and teach. And I said, “Okay fine.” So I did. And that’s what got me back to the East Coast, and I stayed there a year and taught. And Malcolm Lee was one of my students, who did, “The Best Man.” And then Stu called again, Sheslow. And he said, “Do you want to come to Orlando?” And I had kind of mentioned to him that I would like to go back to Florida because Florida at that time was supposed to be the third coast of film. And even though it wasn’t Sarasota, it was close enough. So I said, “Yeah, when?” He said, “Come and





work with Dolly Parton.” So I said, “Yes!” [Laughter] Plus it was freezing in New York, and I was shoveling snow, and so that’s how I ended up in Orlando. So I came here and became stage manager for Dolly Parton, until it got cancelled, her show got cancelled, and decided to come over to UCF and taught directing, film directing for a semester. And then they didn’t offer me a full time job so I went over to the theater, since I decided to stay in Orlando because the producer for the Dolly show was begging me to come back to LA and work for him on the Wayans Brothers [Show], but he could only guarantee me twelve weeks. That’s what they had given the Wayans Brothers to see if it would work, or not. Of course, the rest is history, right? But I decided to stay here and raise a family, and settle down. And my wife had just come over from Zimbabwe, and I wasn’t about to let her go back, and so I decided to stay and so I went to the theatre department and I met Dr. C, and we sat down and had a conversation. I told him my background, the way I’m doing now, my resume, and before I could walk out the door, he offered me a job. He said, “We’ll make a job! We’ll find something.” But I had both theatre and film backgrounds, and so he hired me. So I became a theatre faculty member here, and got my tenure. He worked with me and [in] three years, I had tenure. That was the year that you could go up a year ahead. I could have waited for four years but, you go a year ahead, and I did, and I got it. So we set up that scholarship with Disney, you know where theatre students get a full ride, Disney scholarship. And I think its still in existence. The state matches it. There were primarily looking for tech people, sort of like the Belafonte situation. But we hired a few actors and so forth, because we didn’t want to lose





them. But I been here going, I guess my twent-first year now. But I went from there, theatre to film, back to film, back to theatre, back to film. Became chair of the film department for a year. Became assistant director of the School of Film and Digital Media. Ran the Orlando Rep for a year and a half, downtown, before it was called the Civic Theater at that time. Now it’s the Orlando Rep, and came back to theatre. Then went to communications. And now communications split of and went to science. [Laughter] So I decided I wasn’t a scientist, so my dean helped me come back to the College of Arts and Humanities, and now I’m back to square one, Director of the Zora Neale Hurston Institute and also Africana Studies.

	H:	You’re not teaching anymore?



	M:	I teach during the summer in Africana Studies, the documentary film class. And my students have done documentaries. One of them being sponsored by Alzo Reddick and his student services, not student services, I forget the division that Dean Hasselbeck runs. They gave the funds and we did the documentary on Jesse Brown, who was the 1st Navy/Air Force pilot aviation pilot that got shot down in 1950 in the Korean War. So before integration again, we had Black folks out there doing things and contributing. So that particular documentary is now in the Library of Congress at Washington, DC. They had a special screening and a panel and so forth. Miss Valada Flewellyn helped me put the script together for it, but Alzo was the one who came to me the idea to put it together. But she did do the first exhibit that we did here at UCF, and that exhibit travelled across the country, different places. Then we did one on Goldsboro, which is Thirteenth





Street, Sanford, where Trayvon Martin got shot. And that one has been shown, has been here and shows around at different places also. But it talks about Sanford as an independent town that got trampled over and got rid of overnight because Sanford wanted to expand.

	H:	Goldsboro got eliminated.



	M:	Goldsboro got eliminated. So same thing in a sense. Sarasota and Newtown. See I grew up in a place, Sarasota was like Eatonville or Goldsboro. The only thing in Newtown, it didn’t have its own incorporation, ‘cause it wasn’t—it didn’t have its own mayor. It didn’t have its own government. ‘Cause it all came under Sarasota. So I remember Dr. James, we all called him “Big Ed” growing up. But Dr. James sued the county, got them the change for us to get some representation. He’s responsible for Glossy [Fredd “Glossy” Atkins] becoming the first mayor of Sarasota. Now people, a lot of people won’t give him credit for it, but he made that happen. Now he had Glossy, he had run for the Sarasota seat because in Sarasota, it rotates. So it rotates around. I think Glossy, I heard him say last week, I think he’s running again or he’s running for office again so he can switch around and become mayor again. But there was no representation.

The person who represented Newtown lived all the way out by Bobby Jones Golf Course some place, a White person who didn’t know anything about Newtown.

So it got the districts changed, and him along with some other folks. He can tell you the names of them. Who, along with the NAACP, and they made that happen. And I think Glossy been mayor three times, or something like that. I know he was the first Black mayor of Sarasota. Ed was always behind the





scenes. He never stepped out to be the mayor, or whatever. Of course, his son now is running for Assemblyman, I think it is, in Sarasota. E-3 we call him. He was a little baby when we came. But that’s one chapter I did leave out. And that chapter is, Ed asked me to come back to Sarasota in 1979. And I did, from Hollywood. My career was just kicking, and he said, “I need you, man, to come home; I’m starting a theatre.” He was running the Union of Concerned Parents. And I wanna start a theatre with it. And I want to train these youngsters here about theatre. And you the only person that I know, blah blah blah. Okay, alright. So I moved from California to Sarasota and stayed there the next two years. And sure enough, I taught them the specifics of what to do in each job in theatre. Ed went to the Oslow and got the Oslow to take these students in and train them, on the job training. Give them on the job training. Okay? So the first year we did it, and they worked on all these shows. In costuming, and stage work, and building sets, and all kind of stuff behind the scenes. So one year there was some funds left over, so he took the whole group to New York. I knew friends in New York on Broadway so we saw two plays. And afterwards the cast would come out and talk to the students from Sarasota, and tell them about theatre and that kind of stuff, right? ‘Cause I remember before we went, all students in Sarasota thought they could walk.

	H:	To New York?



	M:	No, they thought—they had never been on a plane, some of them. But they thought, I told them, wear some comfortable shoes. ‘Cause the concrete in New York is different from the concrete in the world, OK? “Ahh, Mr. Major we know!” I





said OK, I’m telling you. Sure enough. So I took them to Harlem, and my mother lived in Harlem,137th Street, and she took them on a waling tour of Harlem. Took them down Striver’s Row, Lenox Avenue. We never did make the Apollo Theater, cause by the time they got to Lenox Avenue they were ready to go back to the hotel. And my mom was just walking, okay? I said, “I told y’all!” They said, “Ahh, Mr. major my feet hurt. Oh whoa.” I said, “I told y’all.” And that night, I had set it up for them to go to a disco. You know, half of them didn’t go. [Laughter] They were so glad to get back to Sarasota. But anyway, from that, they came back inspired to start their own theatre. So Ed went and got that theatre on Third Street, okay? And the lady who owned it, he worked out a deal with her, and they got it. And we set up the Spectrum Players, I think it was called. And we did a whole season. We did four shows. And we brought in actors. I brought in Bill Jay to do, “Ceremonies in Dark Old Men.” A friend of mine from L.A., she was a choreographer that worked with Motown. She came down to do “[For] Colored Girls” for me. And I’m trying to think what else we did—“Raisin in the Sun.” I think we opened with “Raisin.” And the final show was like an all gospel piece, that’s how I met the Lumsdons from Sarasota. The Lumsdons was fantastic, brother/sister singing group. In fact, I took them in the studio and recorded with them, an album, with Dorothy Norwood. But her company wouldn’t let us release it. I’m trying to get them to release it now. But anyway, we did that whole season. And they did all the sets. The designed the sets. They lit it. The costumes, everything. Okay because they had learned from me and learned working at the Oslow. Well, the people got upset. They did—





	H:	White people?



	M:	White folks. “Why you using this money, and taking them people to New York City, and so and so. Okay? And so, we went and got a copy of the Sarasota Herald. And the week before, a group of White folks had gone somewhere, okay? ‘Cause you don’t mess with Ed, okay? Ed is the godfather of Sarasota. Still is, even though he is retired. Because whatever you did in Sarasota, she’ll know, she’ll know. When she first came to Sarasota. Trust me, she knows. ‘Cause the first phone call, whoever you went to see in Sarasota is gonna be Ed. “Do you know her? Do you know him? What’s with this?” And so its up to him to give an “OK” or a “No-kay.” [Laughter] So—but he had it locked in. And these all White folks, that were friends of his, and backed him. Lawyers, bankers, you name it. But they always try to put a pin in his balloon because he was the one doing it. When Black folks in that town needed something done, they came to him. He would get it done. If you couldn’t get the job you lost your job, or you couldn’t get your child into this school or that school, they’d have to answer to him: Why? Newtown Heights, those dugouts for the Little League are covered.

Because why? The White ones are covered. So you gone build the same dugouts for the Black community that you built for the White community. So, I mean he did it all like that. When I came back, he had total control of Sarasota. Now he may not say that or admit to that, but he did. But it was all for the good of the Black folks in that community. We got a mayor, we got voting rights, they got their jobs. And then some of them would get that, and then [the] next day its like crabs in the barrel. And some of them were siding with the White folks about why





you take these youngsters to New York, and live on Central Park South? Because I got them a deal on Central Park South and it was cheaper than anywhere else, OK, when I made the arrangements. And the same thing with the Broadway shows. What Broadway show you go to where the cast come out and talk to the students after the show? And give them instructions and advice?

Come on! OK? But they were upset that they went to Broadway. But he did all of that. My class of [19]57. [Laughter]

	H:	So he came out of that class? M:	Oh yeah.

	H:	It was Ed James?



	M:	Ed James. It was all Raymell Grimes, name was Bell then, but Raymell Grimes. Jetson, well not Jetson. No Jetson, you’re not in that class. But Raymell, Big Ed, Ed James, myself, the guy who actually started—Flick—we call him Flick but he actually started the bulletin, which was a Black newspaper. And he raised his three kids, bought two houses, raised his kids and stuff with that newspaper. So he was enterprising. We got a young man, he’s still alive now, not young anymore. But started his own hair grease company, I use it today. In fact, I got some of it in my head—called Seven Seas. His name is Albert Abrams and everybody used to pick at him and his sister, laugh at them all the time ‘cause they lived by the ditch. And they used to tease them about they eating minnows out the ditch. ‘Cause everybody thought they were crazy. But his whole life, he started this, he come up with this formula and started this hair grease company, and he’s been selling it all over. Now he could have had Muhammad Ali to





sponsor it at one point and turned it down. But that’s on him. But no, he, that’s the Class of [19]57. And then people who became Donald Haygood, Class of [19]57.

	H:	And what does he do?



	M:	Well he’s retired now. He was a supervisor in the transportation system in New York. He was always a good driver. He was our getaway driver. [Laughter] He won’t say that, but he was our getaway driver. But he always would drive. He grew up with horses, and he rode a horse. He had, when he was real ill, he had an illness that had one of his legs shorter. But he never, ever ever, took advantage of it or never wanted any sympathy for it. He never wanted, he was just one of us, all his life. Like I said he rode horses, rode motor scooters. He was the first one to have a motor scooter. In cars and stuff, I mean he was always—I knew he was gonna end up driving something. So he drove the bus to New York for a while and stuff. And Raymell of course, and just a whole bunch of folks in that class who went on to do things and become very good at it. And, I mean, you know, we had a few that we lost along the wayside. But—then we had A. W. Ball and Man-boy. Them two, it was like Butch Cassidy and Sundance Kid.

	H:	Man-boy? [Laughter]



	M:	Yeah, we called him Man-boy. But his name was Raymond Brookings. But of course you couldn’t call him that after he got grown anymore. But growing up he was always Man-Boy. And he was, he was, Raymond Brookings. And he became a pharmacist. A. W. became, worked with one of the companies in





Cleveland, Ohio, engineering, coming up with something to put on the highways and stuff so it didn’t melt with the heat.

	H:	And what’s his name? A. W.—



	M:	A. W. Ball. Roosevelt Ball. I don’t know why we call him A. W., but Roosevelt Ball. And he was about as big as that pen, that fountain pen, but had a voice like Paul Robeson. And was small, but would always start trouble, and we’d have to go get him out or rescue him, you know? But when I say trouble, it was always good trouble because we always had a right cause behind it. We didn’t mess over anybody. We didn’t do stuff to people unless they were racist or did something to us where we felt we didn’t get their support. Which is—at the last minute, we were fine with Booker ‘til the last minute. And we just say, don’t treat us like that. So we got together and voted, well we feel—how do we feel about this? And they garbage! And our principal was like, very clean, he would teach us, “Cleanliness is next to Godliness.” And so when you walk the campus, if there was a piece of paper on the ground, you had to pick it up, whether you put it there or not. You couldn’t lean back in the chair—“Boy, put them four legs on the floor!” And you couldn’t touch the girls, you couldn’t talk. You could talk, but you couldn’t—“Get your hands of that girly, boy!” [Laughter] Everything, you now, I’d have to get my girlfriend and go way out where you could hardly see it, you know, just to lay in her lap at lunchtime. But he was—so we had the cleanest school in Sarasota County, trust me.

	H:	What was his name?





	M:	Rogers, Professor Rogers. Roland Rogers. And you couldn’t do anything. That’s one reason that we got that plaque in the rehearsal hall and the gymnasium is named after Howard Porter. It was ‘cause of Ed. Because what happened is, they were getting ready to throw away the history of Booker High School. I don’t know if Vickie, I’m sure Vickie was there then, so she knows. Someone brought it to Ed and Ed said, “Oh no.” Because Booker High was named after a woman, Emma Booker, OK? And there’s a sign there that has that history. There’s another sign that has Rogers. But it was all-Black and all the principals were Black, up until integration. So when the White folks came they wanna change— it’s the Booker High Tornadoes. They want to get rid of the nickname and the purple and gold. They want to paint it blue and white, whatever White folks want to do with it. And Ed said, “No. You’re not gonna change the name. You’re not gonna change the colors. If you got to that school now you’ll see that the track is purple, the gym is purple and gold, and the name is the Booker High Tornadoes. So if you White folks gonna come to Booker High School, you’re not gonna get rid of this history. Now, every principal’s picture is up on the wall. Now, yeah. You white, so your picture go up there, too. But you ain’t gone take down these Black principals who preceded you and made this school what it is, just because it became a satellite school for Film and Digital Media. You see. Or Film and Television.

	H:	Visual Performing Arts, that’s—



	M:	Yeah, yeah. So the Whites would come and have a reason to come to Newtown, is why they did it, see? Its like Doc Phillips here in Orlando, but to get them to





come, ‘cause they had the school sitting here. Then they came because of that, because it was a satellite school for that. But Ed did that. Not that he didn’t have any help, you know what I’m saying, but he gets the help when he needs it. [Laughter] I’ll put it that way.

	H:	Let me just ask you one final question. What are your concerns about Newtown today ‘cause it is becoming gentrified? And what do you see as the future or what would you hope for the future of Newtown?

	M:	Well the reason why I’m doing this for you guys and Vickie is because I think the history needs to be told and needs to be preserved. In fact, I wanted to do one myself, but I just never got around to it. So thank you Vickie. But I think I can see the same thing for it like I see for Eatonville and that is that the history of it and what it went to through to get to where it is. Then the people have a sense of pride, the people who live in the neighborhood will have a sense of pride and get rid of all the drugs and get rid of all the stuff that went on—I mean that’s going on. And have a sense of caring about the community. Right now it’s like every other Black community; it’s the old folks who are carrying it on. The youth could care less. But I think if we can instill that in the youth, probably get some more Black teachers at Booker. So it’s a mixture. Same way we need some at UCF in authority, some deans and so forth, and I think then the future would be bright.

Harlem today has become the melting pot believe it or not. It has a mixture. Now of course a lot Blacks like my mother and so forth and so on, have lost their homes or didn’t pass down—well hers did pass down but I’m saying a lot of folks need the money so they’re selling those brownstones they’re selling and the





Whites are coming in the neighborhood. But right now, if it doesn’t tilt the other way, then if they can find somehow to keep the balance, then it’s fine because it’s integrated, it’s got services it didn’t have when it was all Black folks. Even though we had fun, even though we had a good time. I mean I think I lived in Harlem during the best times even though it wasn’t the Harlem Renaissance. But the time that I went to New York in [19]57 through the [19]70s I mean it was jumping before disco came. Because disco kinda diluted and went into big clubs and stuff downtown but prior to that the Apollo Theater was jumping. You want from the Apollo Theater and walk up Seventh Avenue, there’s Count Basie’s there’s Smalls Paradise, every seven nights a week. I mean you got all these bands, Jimmy Castor’s, the Sidewinders, the Commodores, I mean James Brown would stop in and do a set in Smalls Paradise. My mother used to throw dances. I had two bands going and go-go girls. [Laughter] That played all over. There was a lot of work for live bands and entertainment. And Saturday night, it would be four deep, not double-parked but four double parked on Seventh Avenue in front of Smalls. So it was only one lane open for traffic to get passed. And the police station was right around the corner so they didn’t bother. They knew people were gonna triple-park and double-park, I mean and four-park, especially triple-park and just one lane open for traffic. And the streets would be full of people all dressed to the nines and having fun. And afterwards everybody would go to Wells House of Chicken and Waffles and have chicken and waffles at five o’clock, six o’clock in the morning and then go home when the sun come up. The White folks would come up there but they didn’t live there like they do now. That





went away with disco. Now it’s coming back with some of the clubs and the nice restaurants, Black-owned some of them, but a lot of them are not Black-owned like they used to be. In fact, Wilt Chamberlain bought a piece of Smalls Paradise from the guy who owned it. And so it became Big Wilt’s Smalls Paradise. But the guy’s name was Smalls who owned it. Then Count Basie had a jazz club on the corner of Thirty-second and Seventh Avenue where my band played. You know Bobby Ayers, Robert Ayers. He and I were partners in a record company. Oh I forgot I had a record company in New York too and discovered the group that played in the movie “Up the Down Staircase” of teenagers. And then they toured Harlem the same the drama club did during the summer.

	H:	And what was the name of the record company?



	M:	Well Motown made me change it. [Laughter] It was called Mosoul ‘cause we had Mosoul and Motown. Motown didn’t like that and I didn’t have enough money to fight them. So I switched it to Gothalam, which was a combination of New York and Harlem. ‘Cause you know now there’s a TV show called Gothalam which is New York. It’s called Gotham City. So I combined it and called it Gothalam Records. And we made a deal with MGM Records, Club Records and the group was called the Sparks. And members of the Sparks went on to perform Ashford and Simpson, the drummer Cooksie and Patrick Adams was the one that did “Black Ivory” and South Soul Orchestra, ‘cause it wasn’t an orchestra, it was just Patrick. He would write the arrangements and get a rhythm section and then he’d play all the horns on the keyboard. And then he wrote “Push, Push in the Bush” which was a huge, huge success back in the day, “Living for the Weekend” and





he produced hundreds and hundreds of records and artists. In fact, it got to be too much and unfortunately he did some things he shouldn’t have done. But I mean he’s okay now. He has his family and so forth but he came out of that group also. They were all like sixteen when I discovered them. Maybe one of was fifteen; I think the bass player was fifteen or something like that. But yeah I had a record company. Robert Ayers is the first cousin to Phylicia Ayers and Debbie Allen. Right, they’re all Ayers.

	H:	Robert Ayers? And he was, who was he?



	M:	He was my partner in the record company. He played organ and piano and worked with me down in Children’s Center. And we put together bands. In fact, he just put together another band. He lives in Georgia now, Atlanta, in Stone Mountain. So he just put together another old folks band I guess. [Laughter] But we could really play. I mean he could play. But Debbie and Phylicia are his first cousins.

	H:	Well very exciting life and career thus far. I’m sure you have much more to come.



But thank you so much for your time.



	M:	Okay I hope I didn’t talk too much. H:	No. I was—

[End of Interview]





	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 10, 2020