AAHP 782; Gross; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 782 Robert Gross 2-29-2020

Interviewed by Olivia Lafuente, Kimberly Williams, and Grace Chun on February 29, 2020

98 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: In this interview, lifelong Cantonment, Florida resident Robert Gross recalls his life in Cantonment, Florida, a small settlement in the Florida Panhandle’s Escambia County. Gross remembers his early education at a local Catholic School and his transition to public school. Later, Gross recalls his decades of work at the International Paper plant in Cantonment, where he learned the skills of virtually every position in every department. Gross explains that his opportunities at International Paper were the result of the activism of black paper plant employees before him, who successfully sued the plant for denying promotions to black employees. He also recalls the extraordinary lengths the company went to prevent the hiring and promotion of black men, and the even more ambitious efforts undertaken by black paper mill employees to combat discriminatory hiring and promoting practices. Finally, Gross reflects on his hopes for the future of the Cantonment area.



Keywords: [Pensacola, Escambia County, Mobile, Cantonment, Florida, International Paper, segregation, integration, civil rights, labor union, labor reform, workers’ rights]



AAHP 782

Interviewee: Robert Gross

Interviewer: Olivia Lafuente, Kimberly Williams, Grace Chun Date: February 29, 2020

	L:	Alrighty, so today is February 29th, 2020, in Cantonment, Florida. My name is Olivia Lafuente and I’m here with

	W:	Kimberly Williams.



	C:	And Grace Chun from the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. L:	And we’re interviewing—

	G:	Robert Gross.



	L:	Awesome. So first could we get your birthday and where you were born?



G:  I was born here in Cantonment, Florida, in 1949. I’m currently seventy years old and been here all sixty-nine years. I probably stayed gone one year when I lived in Detroit and moved back here. Been here ever since.

L:  Were you born in a hospital or at home? G:  At home?

L:   Through a midwife?



	G:	Through a midwife, yeah. During that particular time that was all in this area was midwives throughout. The lady that was midwife, her name was Mrs. Velma. She probably—every kid, everybody in that particular time in the area she probably had birthed with them. And she kept pretty good records of calls and everything. Back then, they didn’t do much about birth certificates and stuff and everything, she just wrote it down in a ledger and, I don’t know how she recorded or if she ever recorded it and everything, but I do know a fact that as we got older and the birth certificate thing came about, when we searched the archives with the county and all and everything it was there. So, she just did it.

	L:	She got it in there somehow?





	G:	She got it in there somehow. [Laughter] You know, with the way things was there wasn’t no public transportation or anything, and she didn’t have a car. Matter of fact, whenever someone was expecting a child or fixing to have a child they would send somebody out to get her. She didn’t live too far from here and so she was kind of quite easily available. And so people would go get her and sometimes she’d deliver two, three a night sometime. People’d just have babies and she was a real old lady and right after she passed away, I can’t remember exactly how old I was, but I remember that there was a real big funeral and everything for her because she had passed away. And then they stopped the midwife thing and said you had to be born inside at a hospital. They did not honor midwives anymore, for some reason. I don’t know what happened with that. But anyway, I had one older brother, he’s passed, gone home now and me and two of my brothers under me and my older sister was all midwives, after that they all went to the hospital. My mom went to the hospital. It’s like any country rural town and everything, you just did what you have to do to survive. I’ll tell you this place here, you had to do something to survive and I’m just gonna tell you like it is: If you was timid or scared you didn’t survive here. You stayed in the home, stayed in the house, stayed here because there’s a lot of mean people here. There was fighting all the time. Just, people are just mean for whatever reason, I don’t know. I don’t want to call it poverty or whatever it was, but it was just real mean. But I tell you what didn’t go on there, people didn’t ever mess with other people’s stuff. There wasn’t no stealing. We could leave the doors open and you could leave your house and go to the store and go shopping, go wherever you need to go





and come back and—It wasn’t like that, like it is now. During this particular time, people stayed put a lot better than they do now. Your neighbor was a neighbor. Like in the neighborhood I grew up in, not too far from this park, maybe about three or four streets over—I grew up there. And on that particular little section right there I had my aunt on each side of me, on each side of us, we had an aunt on each side of us which was my mother’s sisters. And then we had my grandfather, which was my mother’s father, lived right down next to the store.

Because my granddaddy was a carpenter and he built all these houses for the kids.

	L:	What was his name?



	G:	His name was Hezucai. And he was like, you know, and again, during that particular time you didn’t go to the Home Depots and all and get lumber and everything. If there was an old, abandoned building anywhere and somebody wanted it, you would go and start drawing boards out, taking the boards and the nails and then you’d come back and you would take just a regular old handsaw and saw the pieces you need and build a house with it. So he was very—In fact, I think that’s where I got a lot of stuff, I like to build. I don’t do as much as I used to and everything because he would always take us out. When he was this high able to knock a nail back through the board and draw it out, then you got a little bit older and you became the one that stacked the boards and then straightened the nails. Can you imagine that? Nails are bent in the woods, you just take them out, straighten them up, put them in a pile over there so that they could be reused again. So that’s how he’d build a house, very smart. No tape measures—





I’m just going into everything I remember about him—no tape measures, no squares and levels and all of that, everything, and I also remember he said that the average man is six inches from his arm to his elbow.

	L:	And that’s how he measured everything?



	G:	That’s how he measured everything. And the way he leveled everything was— Y’all probably been in school and everything, you know, water sinks to the lowest level. You put the water in a bucket, and then watch which way the bucket tilt.

And if the water tilts this way, that means this end is low, so he’ll raise it up until the water levels out. It’s amazing isn’t it?

	L:	Mmhm.



	G:	It’s amazing how they found ways to improvise different stuff like that and I look at this stuff now—Now we just drop a level, level it up and everything. Yeah, probably not too much on the building and stuff but we grew our own food, during that time over there everybody had a patch of ground in the back of their yard.

And they would grow different things, like this family would grow mostly potatoes, this family would grow corn and this family would grow peas and everybody grew something that the other one didn’t grow. And at the harvest time they would all get together and swap it out. “I’ll swap you some potatoes for the peas,” and all that and that’s the way we lived.

	L:	What did you family grow?



	G:	My family grew everything. Like I said, my mother and her two sisters and brothers and all of them lived right in the house right next door to each other and everything so they all kind of like had the same backyard and they had the same





little plot of ground behind there and everything. So, we grew our own food, we cured our own meat. My granddaddy used to grow cane so he could take it to the sugar cane mill and make syrup out of it and then he made sugar. Everything was basically—I guess what you want to call it, “Did from scratch.” The only thing I ever known that we would ever go buy was maybe some flour—we didn’t do the flour because we would grow corn, grind the corn to make the meal, so we had meal. We would take the hog fat cook the hog fat up in a big pot, and then you had lard for cooking. And used the skins to go in the bread to stretch the bread. So everything was made from scratch. I tell my grandkids and my kids all the time now and everything, I say, losing power and losing all that stuff, I came up when there was no lights. It doesn’t bother me. I like the convenience now, don’t get me wrong. I have a fit when I can’t find the remote. [Laughter] But I came up in an era that, you know, you improvised. There was no other way. So, I mean, I’m sure in the city there was better ways and everything, but for the most part, we improvised. We made our own. Like I said, we grew everything. We didn’t hardly buy anything from the store. We’d get seeds, probably go to the store to buy a pack of seeds. And that was the other thing my grandfather really improvised a lot about is never eat your seed. I hear a lot of time, they preach on that about eating your seed and everything. But that’s a very true story because we planted potatoes, sweet potatoes and ice potatoes and every year, after the sweet potatoes and ice potatoes harvested and everything, my granddaddy would take so many of them and put them in what they called a bed. Dig a hole, cover the hole up, and over a period of time as the winter goes on and it starts





sprouting and you come back during the spring, those potatoes that he buried would sprout up, and you take those plants and you plant them and make some more potatoes and so therefore you didn’t have to buy seeds every year. Very smart, y’all think y’all could live like that? [Laughter] You could, if you came up where you knew. If that was all you knew.

	L:	Yeah. Do you still see that kind of resourcefulness in the community today?



	G:	Oh, no. They don’t have to. I mean, It’s not necessary now. We’re in a generation now where we call it the “Microwave Generation.” Everything is quick, quick. You go out, need something, run to the store and get it and everything. And that was the other thing, there wasn’t any stores here in this place. I don’t know if anybody told y’all but did anybody happen to mention where the name Cantonment came from?

	L:	Not to me.



	G:	Yeah. Cantonment means “encampment.” Right up here where you turn up on the red light, where you turn the red light if you look—well if you’re going day and night you’re coming out there—there is this sign and it was the encampment.

One of the generals of the Union Army was moving and they stopped up there, right up there where that red light in that area up there, and they camped there. And it was said that they camped there for a while and every time that they went and moved to further place, they were headed like toward north and it was pushing—Because you know about the Porch Indians? They have this big encampment up there, they got the casinos and all of that now up there but the Porch Indians had all of this land and they was moved—Every time they were





moved farther and farther and they ended up moving them all the way into Atmore when they finally had what they call a reservation. They kept them all there and everything and so they would have these encampments in different areas and this happened to be one and so they called it Cantonment. This place right here, this area right here, is not actually the settlement of Cantonment.

There is a place down there called the Muskogee. Muskogee was the first settlement, and they had a little train that ran through there with a track and everything and people would come in, get off the train, they had a little depot out there. Had a little post office there that people received their mail. There wasn’t a whole lot of people here. And so therefore whenever people started moving in, I guess one of the contributors to people living here was this paper mill. The paper mill came here in something like 1939 or 1940, and it came in here to start a paper mill but it didn’t have any people to work here. It wasn’t enough people to work here. So what they would do is, right over here in this little red brick village over here, they built all these houses. And they built these houses that people could come in and they could rent ‘em and as long as they worked for the paper mill. This was the Black settlement. This all here wasn’t none of this here then.

And then right across the street where y’all came down on Muskogee Road there, across that place over there they built all the houses for the managers and the mostly renting out, today we call that the White now, this used to be the White folk village this was the Blacks over here. It was segregated, separated and everything. And the Blacks would work out there and for years and years and years it stayed like that. And eventually, the more people that came to work





here and everything they’d come for the opportunity for jobs here because somebody had to go out and cut the wood so they could bring it to the mill. And so there’s a lot of jobs started being here and people would just start migrating here and they had to have somewhere to build. When my grandfather moved here from Evergreen, Alabama, or Castleberry, Alabama, he moved here with just him and his brother. They left their family in Evergreen—Castleberry, he left his wife, he got all his children there that my grandfather had, nine children. And he left them all up there and they came down here just so they could work, and they would work and they would go back on the weekend, and they’d go and watch this now—He didn’t get in a car and drive back. This wasn’t that luxury at that time and everything. He ended up buying him an old horse and he’d ride that horse back. Castleberry is probably about fifty, maybe sixty miles from here.

They went through the woods and all, it wasn’t like the highways, so it didn’t take very long I don’t guess. But anyway, transported until he got to the point where he was well enough and built his house here, then he brought his family here.

And the land that he built all his daughters’ and sons’ houses on, the land was selling then for like twenty-five cents an acre. Really! He bought it. Which, twenty-five cents was a lot of money then, but he ended up buying enough plots in there and other places. Children got grown and everything and then we came along and he would build them a house and that’s how we came to live. If I get too far off subject of what y’all want to hear, just let me know and I’ll—

	W:	No, it’s perfect.



	L:	It’s whatever you want.





[brief interruption to adjust camera]



	G:	I guess, like I say, when the papermill started up and everything and then people started migrating here and families started to grow up, this is what I was told. I just sat and listened to my granddaddy talk a lot because, you know, there wasn’t no TVs, no entertainment back then and I remember my aunt, she was a hairdresser, and she did all the ladies’ hair in the whole community and she was the first one able to buy a TV. She bought a TV for fifty bucks, which was a huge amount of money then, and on Saturday nights she would sit her TV on the porch and all the kids in the neighborhood would come up and sit around in the yard and they’d watch whatever’s on. Back then, TV went off about eight o’clock, so it wasn’t like they were gonna be up there all night. They’d come in and watch it, and then when they whenever the station goes off she would—there wasn’t a whole lot of stations, probably one or two stations. I don’t remember nothing but two stations and one of them stayed with the news all the time and the other one was like a little shows on and everything but she would let the kids sit in the yard and watch the TV on the weekends, on Saturday nights and that like going to the movies. And it was family, it was a lot of connection. Like I said, people stayed put a lot and everything. All of us, my siblings and all of us, we grew up right here together. My mother’s sisters, all of her kids, they just grew up right there together and stayed right there together. And I don’t live right here in Cantonment no more, but I don’t live far from it because I just never wanted to leave. I stayed one time in Detroit for about a year right after high school. Graduated in [19]67, from Ransom. Ransom was a high school then, it was right across over here and





it was a high school then and so I graduated from there in [19]67, I left in [19]68, went and moved to Detroit. And immediately, I knew that wasn’t a place I wanted to be, it was crazy. It was crazy, wow. But anyway, I shift back to Cincinnati for a few months and stayed there with my aunt and my brother had moved up there so I left there, come on back, and I’ve been here. I started to work at the paper mill out there in 1970, and I just retired. July will be four years ago. Put in forty- five years out there.

	L:	Why was Detroit so crazy?



	G:	The reason I guess I call it crazy is when you got a country boy goes into the city like that and everything and everything is like super fast. I’m like, wow! But you learn quick and this I always like to tell people, “When you go into survival mode, you learn to survive. You learn to, you know, live where you’re at.” And I think I just didn’t want to live like that. I was from the country, where everybody speaks, everybody’s real nice to one another, everybody knows somebody and everything. Up there people don’t act like that. You could live in an apartment— we lived in an apartment, I lived in an apartment, stayed there with my cousin, and we lived in this apartment building. It was a huge apartment building up there and nobody out there knew nobody. Everybody’d come home, shut their door and that’s it. Don’t come back out until time to go to work and on the weekend they go do their own little thing. They walk right down the hall and didn’t speak and I just wasn’t used to that. And I was like, “If I speak to you at least speak back,” kind so I’m like, that’s just the way it is. That was the way it was, so I got to experience that and moved to Cincinnati, stayed a couple months there with my





brother, he was in Cincinnati, he had moved up there, it was a little better but not still. So, I come home on Christmas and just never went back. I just stayed here with my mother. She had got sick and wasn’t feeling really well so I just wanted to go back. I guess, we’re so close, we’re such a close family and everything. I always like to share this story about my mom, bless her soul. My stepfather got in a bad wreck. He was hauling pulpwood and the truck turned over and the logs on the truck rolled over on the one guy got killed, but he just fortunate enough, didn’t get killed. And he stayed in hospital a long time. You got to realize, back then the women didn’t work in the workplace like they are now. Only job women did was like working in the house of some White guy—folding the clothes, keeping the house, and they really didn’t pay them nothing and she had kids at home she was trying to support, and anyway she had to stay in the hospital with him to make sure they were doing the right thing for him and everything. Because she left him there for one day and she come back and he was like, really swolled and they hadn’t even been checking on him so she decided, “I’ve got to stay here with him.” And so I told her, I said, “Mother I’m next to the oldest child, and I know how to do a lot of stuff.” I was in my senior year and I went to school maybe one day, two days a month for like almost that whole school term, my whole senior year. The principal said I could not graduate because I didn’t have enough time in school. And so I told my mother that and she said, “Oh no, this not gon’ go.” And so she gets that old black bag of hers and she goes out to the school out there, Ransom out there. And she didn’t know how to be formal, like, “I need to see the principal.” She just went on through the door, right on in to him.





[inaudible] And she went in and she talked to him and she told him the situation, told him everything, and he said, “It’s not up to me, it’s up to the school board.” And he said if he go down and take some contest and everything and score high enough that I would be able to walk and graduate with my class end everything. Not to brag on it but I was a pretty bright kid anyway, I loved school, I loved the lesson, I just loved most of the stuff they gave me was math and I loved the math. Anyway, so I passed, and it was okay and I graduated, and my mother was very happy with that. I always remember telling her, “Do you know when you go to the principal’s office you’re supposed to ask the secretary could you see the principal.” And she said, “I didn’t have time for that.” But anyway, it was, after high school, like I said I went to Detroit, come back from Detroit and I come back here and about a year or two later I started work at the mill out there. And I just worked out there and I married and had five kids, three boys and two girls, and raised them from working out there. I guess my worst thing was, like you probably hear all Blacks saying, was the segregation thing. I had a lot of anger in me because I come up in an area that we wasn’t allowed to even go into certain stores when we went into Pensacola. The sit-in down there that they had at that particular time, you may have heard about the ones at Woolworth and everything. You could shop in there, but you couldn’t use their bathrooms. You couldn’t drink out of their water fountain. You couldn’t whenever you’re walking down the side walk if a White person walking front towards you then you had to get off the sidewalk and let them pass, and I had a lot of anger in me from that kind of stuff. And one incident I often remember this because it really hurt me so





bad, I was in the—It was in JCPenney’s Department Store, and I actually was in there, my mom went in to get me a suit for my prom. Well we were looking around and I said, “Mom, I got to use the bathroom.” She said, “Wow, we got to go way around to the bus station,” which was the Greyhound Bus Station was the only place that Blacks—in the back—could use the restroom. So, no matter where you was at in Pensacola downtown, you had to find a bus station to use the bathroom. So, you know, I said, “Ask them can I just use the bathroom?” She said, “No, I’m not gonna. You can’t.” And so when we started out the door to go on the thing, and so my mom put the suit that she was looking at, just set it down right there. And the salesperson came up to her and he said something—I can’t remember the exact words, but anyway, he said something and I hollered and told him, I said, “You don’t talk to my mama like that!” And when I said that, she popped me in the mouth with her hand, just like, Pow! And I’m like, very respectful of my mom but back then kids respected their parents you know, they may ask them a lot of questions. And I just had to. So, I asked her on the way home because we caught the bus to come home, and I said, “Why did you hit me?” She said, “You speaking back up to him, he wasn’t gonna do nothing but put you in jail and me too.” They had the right. I didn’t realize what Martin Luther King was talking about when he started the march. I was rebellious, I was ready to go to war, whatever it took, I wasn’t taking nothing. I was grown then and I used to, you know, just didn’t believe in taking nothing from no White person, or any color person, really. And I had all that anger in me and I was using it out in the wrong way. And one of the things I didn’t understand that by law we wasn’t





allowed to read at some point. We wasn’t allowed, by law we wasn’t allowed to drink out the water fountain, by law. And that’s what Martin Luther King was saying, he said, “Unless we change these laws, we never gonna have no rights.” Because if the law says you can’t drink, even if the White person says, “You can, go ahead,” he breaking the law and you breaking the law. So, it took me a while to get that and a lot of foolishness and a lot of stuff, but he had the right idea. He did. But we was in a place that it was a lot of violence. A lot of dislike and that violence spilled over in, you know, from my kids because I was so angry and so mad, my kids they come after school stopped being segregated, but my kids knew how I felt about Whites and so they felt the same way, but they had to go to school with them and I didn’t and I did not teach them how to handle that anger or how to deal with that. And so they stayed in and out of school a lot, expelled from school and everything because if a White kid said something to them, they fought. I fought myself for it because there was so much anger in me and I couldn’t release it, you know, get it out of me. And then so it came transcended into my children and they had a hard time with it too and everything because we was in a different era now. I was in an era when Blacks didn’t go to school with Whites, they come up in an era where Blacks went to school with Whites, so you had to learn to deal with them and everything. And I know this for a fact, the few Black teachers we had did not discipline the Whites and they was able to do what they wanted to do to the Blacks. And if you went to the principal’s office, the Black got sent home and the White stayed in school. And you know what that did, that just made those kids more angry and everything. And a lot of that stuff





even goes on today, it’s better, but its still goes on today and so we seemed like we was fighting a losing battle but it got a little better after Martin Luther King started to march and all of that. And here in Cantonment, we didn’t have any law enforcement, none at all. If somebody did something—a fight or something went on and everything they would call downtown and they would send a policeman all the way from town. Now by the time he got from Pensacola to up here it was a— So eventually in the like [19]70s, [19]80s—maybe the [19]80s, they put a little sub station up here where you can come down and everything and so, like I said, it got a little better with that and everything, but the idea of it is just—When he came, if he came over into the Black settlement in there, like we had about two clubs down there and it was always someone fighting, getting cut and shooting and everything, if you interviewed somebody from Pensacola that was back during those days, they would tell you, “Do not go to Cantonment. Those people will hurt you out there.” And they was right. We had our own little group here and outsiders wasn’t welcome and I believe today it was a lot more [inaudible 00:34:45], Lord have mercy thank God for Jesus, I got my life together maybe about fifteen years ago and so I understand a lot that went on during that time but really Cantonment has itself evolved a long way. Right here where we sitting at was all woods, we played in these woods out there. Over in that lot, that vacant lot when you come in here there was a Catholic school, and a Catholic church, and for my first through the sixth grade—that’s the only way it went to— the sisters would come out every morning to the school and teach and every Friday we would have to go to church to do whatever they do on Fridays, I forget





now, it’s been so long. But anyway, that catholic school stayed over there and I have to admit that those sisters made sure that everybody that went through that school, learned. You did not get out form over there without learning, and I think that’s why I really got my actual start from learning and then really begin to actually enjoy school. And the other thing was, I just wanted to have a passionate to know and I just had a desire to know and that’s something I don’t think kids now really embrace, is wanting to know. Everything is like, “Give me, give me, give me and I ain’t gonna worry about the end of it.” That’s now. But the Catholic school was great but everybody couldn’t go and everybody didn’t go, most of them went to a public school. I would have continued to go to that Catholic school—there’s a school downtown on Government Street named Saint Joseph. It’s been there for years and years and years, they wanted to send us down there but we would have had to—they come up and told us we would have to pay to go to the Catholic school. And my mom said, “I don’t have any money to pay you for your—I would like for you to go, first of all you don’t have no transportation.” So they was willing to send a bus all the way from Pensacola to pick up the ones that are already coming out of the sixth grade before they shut the school down, they was gonna send the bus to make sure that they got to school, but still, you had to pay them. My mother said, “No, y’all going over to Ransom.” And it’s free, public school and everything so I ended up doing that. It wasn’t a whole lot to do here, there was a movie theater here at one time, right here. Yeah, right up here as y’all came in if you look on the left side as you were coming in, on the left side of the little building right there, there was a hardware, a grocery store, it’s way out





there, you know, grocery store and a movie theater. The movie theater was a upstairs and downstairs. The Blacks was allowed to be downstairs and the White would be upstairs and everything, and those kids was—man they’d throw popcorn down there, throw drinks down there and everything. You couldn’t ever sit right up under the balcony part because they’d just throw stuff over there, just to mess with you. So you had to sit way up front there to get away from it. But anyway, it was the movie theater finally closed because the Blacks stopped going and so when the Blacks stopped going the Whites didn’t have nobody to aggravate so they stopped going, so the movie theater shut down. The grocery store shut down, then we had another grocery store that opened up, Pleasen grocery store opened up for a while and eventually it shut down. Which, I guess during the era, this was after so many years’ time passed and everything and nothing thrived and everything, but this community grew, it grew, grew. And I don’t know if you know about right now this little part of the community right in here, this area here and maybe five or six blocks on over remains the same. But around this Cantonment subdivision, nice homes started growing. In fact, I was sharing with Josh, I said, “Josh, something going on here. How can they build around us like this and never come in and put any kind of infrastructure, any kind of nothing here into—What’s going on this this?” And so Josh did some research and come to find out, all of this land here is so landlocked or I guess locked up to the point that the ancestors never did say who could get it and the paperwork never got changed and so can’t nobody do anything with it. So the County come in—even when they came in here lately, this area here, when it rains a lot, you





better have your boat. All the water it seems like for some reason just comes here and everything but now they come in and did a whole drainage system. Man, they dug up the streets and put drainage pipes down. Now, when it rains, you can—the water gone. Just like, we had a heavy rain a few weeks back and I just had to come out here and look. The park was empty, the park was dry and the water runs off, so it did. They had to do something like an intimate domain, that’s where you just—the county just do what they need to do for the good of the land, of the people and stuff. And so I think that’s why things have not progressed around us, because they got nice subdivisions all around us coming up, people just building and building and building and really nice homes and none’s here, none is in here. But Josh and them is doing an awesome job getting some things did and working with the county and taking small steps at a time and sometimes that’s what you have to do.

	W:	What did you do with the mill?



	G:	At the mill? I worked forty-five years there, I probably worked in every department at some time or another. I was fascinated with the paper making process—

	W:	Could you tell us about it? How it works?



	G:	How paper? Okay—really? Basically they bring in the logs, they go out and they cut the pine trees down, and they bring in the logs out there and once they bring in the log they cut it up into little chips and after they cut ‘em into chips they put ‘em in something called a digester. A digester is basically—That’s another thing, I was a trainer for about six years out there and I trained the new people that come in out there so I would make this whole little sketch about how things was, but





anyway, the digester, if you put a pot on the stove—Y’all know about pressure cookers, don’t you?

	L:	Mmhm.



	G:	Alright, you know when you put a pressure cooker on heat, because it cooks under pressure the stuff that’s in it cooks real fast. And so those digesters, when we put the chips in, cook real fast. Because it was under pressure. I mean like you’re talking about seven, eight hundred pounds pressure. And it would cook the chip. Now watch this, you can’t put a pot of beans in a pot and expect them to cook without what?

	L:	Water.



	G:	You got to put some water in. So, you can’t put water in with the chips. What they had was something called liquor and the liquor was made up of lots of different chemicals, there’s a lot of chemicals that goes on out there. And so, they put all these chemicals together in there and then put them in there with the chips and it would make the chips like mush. Have you ever seen a brown paper bag after it’s been wet.

	L:	Mmhm.



	G:	It’s really soft, and so that’s what comes out of the digester after the chips is cooked. And we call it pulp. And they would send this pulp to what you call a bleaching process, now, to make White paper. And then if they wanted a brown paper bag they’ll leave it that color, but if they want White paper they would bleach it, chlorine, different chemicals and everything, they would bleach it. And then they would send it through what they called a dryer, and that dryer would





dry it out, and it would roll. As it rolled on the machine, the machine had some big turning wheels and this paper would roll across this wheels and everything and they would dry. And then when it comes outside they would press it down to a thin sheet and then it rolls up on a roll. And it’s a sheet of paper. There’s a lot of other stuff that went into that but that’s basically what it is. The chips and the pulp and the paper. And my job was, I worked on the wood yard with the chips of wood for a long time. I worked in the digester room where they would pressure cook it. And I worked also in the paper machine, didn’t like the paper machine, they worked too hard up there. Because every time that reel rolled up they had to get it off and put another one on and run it. But that paper mill was—we made paper bags. They had a bag plant out there where they made all your bags at and the bag plant finally shut down, it eventually went away. And so they started with the copier paper, became a real big thing then, and that’s why they’re bleaching a lot of the copy paper for your ‘lil computers and all that. And I don’t want to share their secret and everything, but when you go to the store and you see all the different name brands paper, don’t be fooled by that. [Laughter] All they do is change the wrappers.

	W:	What about the fluff pulp?



	G:	The fluff pulp was a biggie. The fluff pulp was the strongest. They had two machines that made the fluff pulp, and when they find out that they was finna be a market for that fluff pulp, they shut one machine down, converted it over and made it a fluff pulp machine because the fluff pulp used the women filling things, the baby diapers, anything that was cotton, men’s panties and whatever,





anything that had this kind of stuff in it, that’s what they used it for. And so the fluff pulp was a big money maker and so they said that fluff pulp machine made enough money to pay for everything at the mill. All of it. That’s just how much money it made.

	W:	What’s the difference in the process? When did it happen, and tell us--



	G:	Okay, the fluff pulp here is all in the cooking. If you gon’ make a sheet of paper, you cook it for so long. If you gon’ make fluff pulp out of it, you cook it even longer. Because you want it to really soften up as much as you can, it’s almost like a sponge when it comes out the fluff pulp. And then they treat it a different way and as they treat it and everything it really makes it really soft. Now the fluff pulp, when it leaves us it’s still in the form of a sheet of paper but it’s dried out where they can handle it and ship it all and it rolls up on a big roll itself. But when the people get it and buy it, what they do is they’ll take it and put it in their machine, chop it up, put some water on it and everything to fluff it back out and then they’ll make their product. So, we don’t do the processing part of it, so we just send it to them and it’s ready for whatever they need it to do. We had another paper that came through that they called a wet string, y’all might not be old enough—I don’t know how old you is but that back long ago they made a commercial with George Foreman I believe it was and it was talking about how tough wet string was. Matter of fact, they advertised that they made a bridge out of the paper itself and drove cars across the bridge. That’s just how strong the paper was. And it was a big money-maker for a while and so there’s been a lot. Right now, long before I retired they got away from the printing paper, copier





paper, because the copier paper business, they couldn’t make any money here. The Chinese over there, they was making it for about three cents a sheet and it was costing us something like a dollar a sheet so they flooded the market with it over there. Then they come along and they decide that they wasn’t gonna import so much of that from over there and everything and all just export and import anyway and so what China did was they bought into some mills over here and by them buying into some mills over here—the wages was a little higher over here but they were shipping their stuff through to the mill they bought over here and selling it right back out.

	W:	To where?



	G:	To the public. So anyway, what they was doing was it was still cheaper and so anyway these companies had to get out of—not only International Paper, Georgia Pacific, all of those warehouses, all of the big mill names those big businesses, and these mills, they had a thing where they would set the price and one would undermine the other. If you mill was selling it for a certain amount, you would sell it for a certain amount, that means there wasn’t no competition. Well those Chinese come in over there and they said, “We ain’t playing that game.” So anyways, copy paper went out. Now, you know what they making now they selling that’s making the money? And they have the biggest machine in industry out there working because they put that big machine in when they was doing the copier paper. It’s one of the largest machines in the world. Because they was churning out more copier paper than any—yeah, right up there, big number five machine. It would turn out a roll—I forget how wide it is, but it’s longer and wider





than this trailer, the whole row across, and so they were made there. But when the copy paper business failed, they turned around and said, “You know what’s selling now? What do you do when you order something online?”

L:   Packaging.



	G:	Packaging. Packaging is taking over everything, packaging is taking everything and that’s what they make. If you ever look at the box you get, there’s a real thin sheet across the top and in the middle of that sheet is something called corrugated, it’s the little rougher looking stuff. And on the bottom of it is another sheet, they sell that top sheet and that bottom sheet and that corrugated sheet too and so when they sell it the people that the box plants, these box plants take it, put a little glue on each side of it and they send the whole cardboard box, they make the cardboard box, they turn around, and whoever buy it for whatever size they want—they just tell them what size they want, they cut it all up into boxes, ship it.

W:   It’s cardboard though, not plastic?



	G:	It’s cardboard. And so that’s the biggie now and it’s been holding for a while because if you’ve notice now, everybody’s bought they stuff online. The majority of stuff coming to your house is in a—you order something online and it may be a little jump drive. It come in a little box like that, it’s that big. And so that’s basically what the paper mill business is and everything. And fun thing is, the majority of people that worked out there in the mill don’t live here in Cantonment. No, we fought with that for a while. When it first started, the majority of the people worked out there, lived here. They lived right over there in those villages and they





would bus people in here to work in their mill and everything because a lot of stuff wasn’t automated. There’s twenty-five hundred people working out there. And when I started out there in 1967 there was something like thirteen hundred. Automation is kicking in, kicking in. And when I left there they was down to about six hundred people. Automation. After robots they got the electric guys and everything and when you’re talking about that copier paper, they would run the sheet across this cutter, it would cut and count them sheet and stack them, send it out to a little thing, it would wrap ‘em, and then a little robot thing will run by there and pick up the little pan and take it on somewhere else. And I’m like, they cut out like eight people’s jobs! [Laughter] But they said they don’t get vacation.

	W:	Amazon?



	G:	No, the little machines, the robots. They don’t get vacation, they don’t talk back, [Laughter] So it’s all over there, automation. Yeah, I worked in Detroit up there, they was automating that place up there and everything. They had started to where everybody was manufacturing some people put doors on, some people put hoods on, they have little robots doing all of that now. It’s automation took over.

	L:	Did you enjoy working there? Did you think the management was fair?



	G:	Like I say, when I came there the original owner was Saint Regis. Saint Regis sold it to a company called champion. Champion sold it to International Paper. The best one of those people to work for was the Champion organization. They had great benefits, they treated employees right. International Paper, they have these great philosophies that they preach and teach and everything, but they





don’t take very good care of their employees. And if anybody read this, I said it! I’m retired. [Laughter] I don’t care! [Laughter] But International Paper don’t treat—Anybody that worked there will tell you. But I, you know, I made a living there. That’s where I made my living, that’s where I was taking care of my family at and everything. So, you know, you learn to roll with it. But I think after about— Like I said, I put in forty-five years out there and I think about the last eight years, I was in supervision. I switched over and went out of hourly ranking to the supervision rank and everything. And I was a trainer for five years, and I just trained people when new people came into the area, because I knew about the process and all the ups and downs. And so after I left the training part and everything, I went into supervision because I was getting ready to retire and supervision had a better retirement than the hourly people, and it does, and so I was able to get into supervision. I retired a shift manager and I was there for about six years then retired, got out of there, and I love it.

	W:	Earlier you talked about how influential the Reverend Martin Luther King, his legacy in life on you and this community, could you talk about his influence and also his assassination?

	G:	Like I said, when Dr. King was killed I think I was either—It was in [19]67?— L:	I think [19]69.

	G:	19[69], okay, [19]69. I graduated [19]67, so I was just coming out of school and everything and so the movement was a big part of Black people everywhere then. And because people were starting to take notice now, people were watching the movement. And I think my part is, and I’m sure a lot of Blacks felt





like this, it’s that they didn’t understand the peace thing. I didn’t understand him being beat, him being thrown in jail, he didn’t fight back and the people that marched with him, they couldn’t fight back. I don’t know where he found ‘em at. He didn’t get them off the streets of Cantonment. As time went on, and like I said we learned, and he knew something we didn’t know. [Phone rings] Imma call you back. What they didn’t know was that if we didn’t get the system changed, wasn’t nothing else gonna change. It was gonna stay the same. Like I said, the law was that we couldn’t drink out of the fountain. It was the law. They had laws that—you know it if you know your history right—they had laws that we could not learn to read and write. We wasn’t supposed to. Any Black caught teaching a Black how to read and write—and this was way back during slave times and everything.

When I was in high school right out here in Ransom, the books we had came from the White school. Because they knew when they got through with them, they got too old for them that they would send them to us, they would have those racist slurs and everything all the way through them and sometimes they’d have pages torn out. How do you teach somebody something from books that pages tore out and they was raggedy and bad shape? But you know, we dealt with it.

And so for a period of time, that’s the only books that we had was the books hat was used form the White kids schools, they would send them to us and everything. Every now and then, a set of encyclopedias that we got and what came from the school, we had a library out there and every book in that library had somebody name in it. I mean some kids name in it that had used it before and writing and they just send it to us and everything. So, we was dealing with all





of that, it was like we was nothing. So, I don’t condone the way we felt or the way people acted and everything, because they was tired and they would feel really like society had said they was nothing. The thing about Martin Luther King was, he was trying to help us and we wasn’t helping him. Do y’all know—you probably don’t know—there was a lot of Blacks against Martin Luther King?

	L:	Mmhm.



	W:	Yes.



	G:	There was a lot of Black people saying, “Martin, you’re making things worse for us.” Martin you need to sit down, Martin you need to get out of here.” There was a lot of leaders—the Reverend H.K. Matthews and the Reverend Lemorette and a few more down there in Pensacola took the stand and they went to jail and was marching. I remember, I’ll never forget the day this White cop shot this Black guy and Reverend Matthews went over to the jailhouse and they all marched out there in front of the jailhouse. They come up and arrested every one of them, put ‘em in jail, “Y’all can’t protest out here like this” and everything. Why? They had to have something that said they could gather.

	L:	Was that from the riots in the high school in Pensacola?



	G:	From? No, all of that was part of it, because there was simple killing in this area here when the White policeman and the White person shot and killed a Black and nothing was did about it. A good friend of mine, he was dating a White girl and the police, they was parked over—I don’t know if y’all are familiar with the old Washington High School, the old Washington High School was over off Texar Drive, actually it’s kind of like the center where they used it for the storage of





books and the archives and all that. But anyway, it was the old Washington High School and it was the overpass over there right up over that overpass before you get to the school and everything. People used to go out there and hand out a little bit so this guy was out there with this White girl and police happened to pull up on him and I did not see it, but all indication was that would happen and everything and he shot the boy. And when he shot him, he said that they was out there doing this and he was just trying to arrest him but the boy refused arrest and tried this and tried that. And so they let him go, started another riot in the schools and everything. A lot of times in the school, like I said when the Blacks and Whites got into it and the Black got expelled, that’s another riot. But again, back to Martin Luther King, he just kept on going. He was between a rock and a hard place. Whites and the Blacks was against him, but he just kept on going, kept on going, kept on going. One thing that he didn’t realize, didn’t know was gonna happen was whenever this stuff that’s happening in the South woke up some people in the North and it began to interfere with their business part of things and how they was handling business and everything and then when they begin to raise their eyes about stuff over there, and then they had this killing in Mississippi where those kids went over there and was trying to make people vote—I’m sure y’all heard about that. And all of this made them think, “Now wait a minute, now this is opening up the eyes of people now. Now the presidents getting into it, the newspaper picking it up, you see it on TV now.” This is what Martin was talking about, we had to bring it out of the South. As long as it stayed right here in our little area, then we still be fighting it now. So he had to make it





be known and whenever they showed them watering them down, plenty of folks, lots of good people said “This is just ridiculous. What kind of law enforcement is this?” Y’all know what really triggered it? What really trigger the thing for us was when George Wallace stood on the state capital in Alabama and said he’ll die before a Black person enter in through his school and that raised the eyes from a lot of people. Because a lot of people said, “Well who this guy is that he think he” and so then again, Martin just—all this was playing into hand. It was like big press, everything on TV now, everybody’s picking it up. News is picking it up.

And you don’t have the kind of reporting news you have now, the CNN and all that stuff, but it was getting pretty big, it was in the papers and people were starting to watch now. But all the rioting and all going on in California, all the rioting going on in Detroit—we’ve got to figure out a way, we’ve got to stop this. We got to stop this. And so Martin knew he was fighting the case by himself. He had some followers and some people with him and everything but I’m like a history buff. Me and my wife and my youngest daughter, we went to Charleston, South Carolina because I wanted to go there. They said that was the place where the slaves were auctioned off and right here we are fortunate enough— and I’ve visited that place and everything—right there in Mobile. It’s where the last slave ship embarked stopped at. When they got here at the Mobile Bay and then they found out that they couldn’t sell they slaves, you know what they did? They turned ‘em loose! They just said, “Okay well y’all can go. Y’all get off the ship, go somewhere.” How you gon’ bring people all the way over here and then just turn ‘em loose? But those people are resilient. Black people are resilient.





They will make a way. So, what they did was they moved into a place called— right now it’s African Town. If you ever go over to Mobile, go across that Cochrane Bridge and go down in there and they still got some of the old houses. What they did, those people banded together—I read a lot of history on those people, they banded together because they didn’t have nobody but each other. They sourced their self out to do the work for the people. The White man couldn’t buy ‘em no more, but they would source their self out to work in the fields and then they would pay them so much and give them so much food. They sometimes wouldn’t give ‘em money but they would give ‘em food. And a lot of time the man would say, “Well, if you work this particular property over here I’ll give you an acre or two right here to work it with. And so they figured out, you know, “If he’s gonna give me this acre, and I’ll just use it to grow my little crop on too,” and everything. So those people worked real hard. And that’s why the population of Mobile was so heavy with Blacks, because of that last slave ship.

But I found out that we are resilient, we are resilient if we want to be. This new generation? They not resilient. They… feel that everybody owe ‘em something and when you feel that people owe you something then you figure if you can’t get it then you can go take it and everything. This whole new generation now, life don’t mean nothing to ‘em.

	L:	Do you think there’s like a sense of hopelessness with people now-a-days?



	G:	I think that with all people. I believe that—and this is just my belief I’m gon’ put out there. We council kids and talk to kids now and everything and the mentality of those kids are like off the chain is like, “Okay you and you have a





disagreement, how do y’all settle it?” “Hey if he gets in my face I might just have to off him.” What do that mean? Whatever it takes. You know, and now with that kind of mentality that means that you’ve got people thinking, “Just because we disagree and you don’t like what I say and you don’t like something I do then I’m just gonna kill you, I’m just gonna hurt you, I’m just gonna shoot you.” I don’t— [Laughter]—And I’m just like, “Do you really feel like that?” “Well, if he in my space—” These are words I hear from the younger generation. “You’re in my space.” all this kind of stuff. We have more rights than we ever had but we use none of them. For the right thing, for the right thing. I don’t know. Sometimes when we’re ministering to ‘em and talking to those kids we’re lost for words because of their mindset and everything. And the whole thing filters back to the homes. There’s no fathers in the homes. All the fathers in jail. Powerful women— are raising their kids and they don’t have a father in the household for them to learn how to be a father. Women—kids having kids! Twelve, thirteen years old.

You ain’t grown yourself! How you gon’ raise a child if you ain’t got raised? And so therefore it comes along and everything. But I’ve got one thing that I live for every day. That God’s gonna fix it. Some point, somewhere, God is gonna fix it. The Bible said that the world is gonna get wickeder and wiser and they are. My little nine-year-old granddaughter now like she’s an iPhone wiz. [Laughter] I couldn’t get my tablet to do something, and she’s like, “Pawpaw let me have it.” About two minutes later, it’s rolling. They are so smart! In this generation they have to be smart but they’re not using their smarts for what they should be, some of ‘em. Some of ‘em doing great, some of ‘em doing great. But I really go back





and I talked to a lot of men around children and everything. You need to go home and raise your family. If you got kids out there that you left, you need to go back and teach ‘em how to be a man. Unless that’s a crazy thing, you can search Google and the Internet and all of this for all kind of information that’s out there, but they won’t search it for the right thing. I like that y’all are doing something like this because the stories are probably the same in all Black communities and the struggles that they had and everything and what this little place here, it seems like a little forgotten place. But it starting to thrive again, it’s starting to thrive.

Another pet peeve that I have—and matter of fact we did a prayer out here in the park, came out here to share for a whole week and was praying for this community. My thing is, there’s some successful people that have left this place and they never returned. That’s not good. If you knew how it was and you got away and became successful, why ain’t you using some of the resources or something and try to bring it back and help change it? And they never do. You know, they like this, “I got out, I’m through with it!” Like I say, I don’t live far from out here but I have family still out here and I come out and I talk to people all the time. I still love this place, it’s home, it’ll always be home. We still get together as families and we try to maintain that family relationship. My mother had eleven kids and all of ‘em are living except one, and we still get together. We still, like, we don’t do nothing but just call one another. I usually call my brother or my older sister to take care of the girls and once or twice a year we get together on Mother’s birthday and we just have a good time. You don’t see that anymore.

And that was another thing that—Did I mention how people how people in the





community used to swap goods with one another? One thing for another and everything.

	L:	Mmhm.



	G:	And they would always get together on holidays and just bring stuff together and just have parties. I mean just enjoy one another and everything. And so we don’t have that anymore, everybody’s so separated. I don’t know if it’s the culture or what. Like I said, people don’t stay put. A lot of people here in Cantonment right now I probably don’t know. They’re not the older head and everything because they move in, move out, move in, move out. It’s a jugglenut but I love this place and I’ll always do whatever I can to better it or to better the people in it, and whatever I can while I’m here. But this is just, this is so much that people don’t know about this place. There’s still a lot of good people here too. But they’re so afraid. They are afraid that if they get involved or say the wrong thing or do the wrong thing that somebody’s gonna retaliate against ‘em. And it’s like that in the cities but it was never like that here. It’s like that here in Cantonment. How can you tell me that your kid come home with a pocket full of money and ain’t got no job? Driving a car with nice rims on it and new $3,000 paint job sometime and got no job! It’s okay. You don’t want to be involved. Next thing you know, he’s in jail and you down there at the courthouse begging the judge to let him off. No, you should have been talking to him! And that’s the only pet peeve I have with people. Because most of the people out here don’t have really good paying jobs and everything but that don’t mean you can allow your kids to run around and do what they wanna do. Hey, you coming up in a house with a big ol’ flat screen





TV—ain’t no way you receive that. You ain’t got the money. “Well, you need a TV and I got this home for us.” Broke into someone house and got a TV. To me, that’s condoning it. I’d say, “Hey look, you get that junk out of here before I call the police.” But they don’t. But that’s now. When I was growing up, you had to give an account of your whereabouts. I’m telling you, my mom and all the moms and everything, if you was away from that house when dark come—First of all, you had to say where you was gonna be, and be there. If you go down to, “I’m going down to Joey’s house.” My mom and all the moms would call or either come down there or ask they mom the next day, “Was Robby down there?” And then they’ll check on it and we knew they were gonna check on it so you needed to tell ‘em you were going down there and everything. And then if dark came, if you wasn’t in the yard you better be right outside the yard in seeing distance.

And that was for every household. Most of them back then. And another thing is just kind of like how way kids run free. You see sometimes kids at eleven, twelve, one o’clock in the morning walking the street. Where could you be going this time of night? But this new generation, they don’t care. Because that twelve-year-old mama right now is probably sixteen years old or seventeen or maybe eighteen or nineteen. I don’t know. Y’all need anything else?

	W:	Well do you have any other last comments that you would like to say about Cantonment?

	G:	Past? Future?



	W:	Any.



	L:	All of it.





	G:	All of it? All of it. Probably if I had the one thing or something to sum this all up I would just say that this community is starting to thrive again. A lot of good things are happening to it. The county commissioners are starting to take notice about this community. It has always wanted to do something for this community, but nobody would step forward and say, “I’ll take responsibility.” They came in one time to do some work in this park and people’s kids trashed it. And they said, “If nobody gonna take responsibility—” so when Josh came up with the Cantonment Improvement Committee and everything we said, “We’re gonna make sure if anybody’s caught bashing this park, we’re gonna call the police on them. We’re gonna end that.” And they do. And so therefore this park has been—they been adding on and doing things to it and fixing the bathroom and everything. So it’s starting to prosper right here in this park. The thing I want to see and hopefully in the near future it will come is that they would give us some kind of community center, somewhere where we can meet and join and maybe grow. All these computers over here, they just sit here. They sit here. Nobody takes advantage of them. But I think you have to find the thing that motivates them, that makes them want to be a part and everything. Sometimes I come by here in the evening time, that basketball court is full of kids out there. But come dark, they got to be out at the park, where do they go? What if you had a community center? They would have a place to go out, somewhere to meet and everything. Someplace to be and a place where they would be governed and watched over and that they could be talked to. And so I think the community center really would help. A friend of mine, they got down here on Davis Highway over there they had their





community center completed a few years ago. He told me the whole community’s gotten better from it. So it’s something to hope for and hopefully we can get there someday. Another thing that we was praying for when we played that week in the community—and we’re having another this fall, is that the community comes together. All they want in downtown Pensacola is to see that somebody is willing to step forward and step up and take responsibility for this community. There’s no need for pouring money into this community, if you just gonna trash it. It’s not gonna be useful for the good. But if they see enough concerned citizen, I always tell Josh—you got to get some voters down there. Downtown they look at votes. If you get enough votes showing up down there they’re like, “Okay, we’ll do something. I’ll get my other term in here, I’m gonna need them votes.” Stephen Berry is DC of compensation for this area, does a good job. He seems to really care and if you have concerns you can talk with him and he does come out to a lot of the functions that we have. And this means a lot here, I just don’t think they do enough for this community. And they’ve been in this community all of these years. I don’t think they do enough. They went up in Molino which is thirteen, maybe ten miles up and invested in a big project up there for them. They had a ballpark put in for ‘em up there. And I’m like, “Here we is right here and you can’t?” And every now and then I hear that they give some money for events like Labor Day stuff and everything but that’s okay. But hey look, they got property all around here. Why not donate some of it and say, “Hey, look, y’all go ahead. I’m gonna donate this property and everything and then the, you know, lean on the property and say and he’ll build a building on it or something. Just build a





building. International Paper been out there for twenty-something years and they haven’t done anything in this community that they can show. Giving a few bucks for some outings and everything, people come out and eat, it’s gone. But why didn’t you put your footprint on it? Why didn’t you put a footprint on it, but you can go—Matter of fact, you can even go over there to Perdido Key—I don’t know if y’all know about Perdido Key, but anyway, everything over there is on the million- dollar-and-over houses. Why would you go way over there and invest money in doing something over there? Why would you go almost up to Atmore and invest money in stuff up there. What about this community? And maybe they have a reason for not doing it, I don’t know. But I would like to see them get more involved in this community and helping it to grow and to prosper and everything. I guarantee you 10 percent of they work people 5 percent of they work people from out there is not from Pensacola, not from here. Well one thing they said is that nobody passed the drug test. When I went to work out there, they have you a test and you had to be—I mean, it was really hard. If you didn’t really know a lot of math and a little bit of just that—you know, the square pig, round pig, this and everything. And they outlawed that over a period of time, they said, “you can’t have tests like that anymore.” And so you know what they next thing they come in and did? Since they couldn’t give you the test right there they give you what they call—I call ‘em brain teasers. Ask you a question that don’t have an answer to it. They determine whether that’s the right answer or not. And I’m like, that’s crazy. That means you’re still filtering out who you want! Well okay, what’s the right answer? That’s not the right answer. Well what is the right answer? Well





that’s not it, let’s move on to the next one. That kind of stuff. We came in, when I started out there it was a big segregated thing, a big separation thing out there. The Whites had they bathroom, the Blacks had they bathroom. And the year of 1970 they passed a law that no more separate bathrooms out there, everybody had to use the same bathroom and everything. And so they did that. Out there Blacks were only allowed—there were five levels of jobs, you start on the bottom and then there’s different levels with different pay on up. Blacks would only be able to go to two levels, after those two levels, a White guy could come in behind you and he could go on up to give levels and what you had was, you had guys out there that was fifty, sixty years old had twenty and twenty-five years out there still on the bottom hob because they couldn’t go higher. All that stuff had to be dealt with. The federal government came in out there after a long time. The federal government came out there in, I believe it was 1975, [19]74, [19]75, and said, “Okay, we’re gonna outlaw this. You can’t do that. You’re not gonna be able to do it like that anymore,” for the industrial part of it. So, what they did was the people that was really kind of up and age and had all these years, they said that everybody that comes in now has to come in under them. Any job that come open on the top, the older person can move up. Well guess what? All the people on the top were younger than the people on the bottom! Because they had went around ‘em. You see what I’m saying?

	W:	How is that legal?



	G:	It wasn’t legal but the federal government came in and changed—I forget the name of what they called that but anyway—and so they said, “Okay, we’re not





gonna allow any more people to come in under these older people and go around them. We gon’ make sure that, ‘Alright, where you are now?’” If you’re on the second level job, when you go to the third level job that means somebody retired or quit above you, then you could move up. So you’re allowed to move now. But all these people done come around these older people. Everybody up there is younger than the people that got to move up. So they ain’t goin’ nowhere.

	W:	Are you saying that the younger ones that were above the older ones were White and the older—

	G:	Yeah and the older Blacks they said they were gonna let ‘em promote on up now as the top ones leave out, but they wasn’t gonna leave out because they was younger than the ones that were on the bottom. And it wasn’t right. And so we dealt with that for about five years, lawsuits and lawsuits. They came in and they decided that, “Okay, this is not working, we got too much stuff going on here. The union’s started—that was, again, you had a Black union and a White union—the White union wasn’t strong, didn’t care nothing about that and there was a few of us and everything. Anyway so they filed suit again with the federal government again, took four or five years and they finally come in and say, “Okay, look this is what we gon’ do: Every Black that was passed over can go up to where they job should be. That means if you was on the second-level job and you would’ve been on fifth-level job, the highest job there, then you would be able to go up into that job. But you would have to be trained. And guess who does the training? [Laughter] Are you kidding me!





	L:	Yeah it’s like a never-ending cycle.



	G:	Guess who does the training? [Laughter] So here we go again, they figured out a way to get out of this. Now the third thing was—this is going crazy, now people out there really tripping—so they say now, “Okay. Equal opportunity. Blacks are equal opportunity law, we’re gonna come in right now. And they have this ratio— you have to have so many Blacks to so many Whites and everything. And so they froze all the White hiring and majority minority—they could only hire minorities. They could only hire minorities. That was the law. So they come here out there and said, “Okay, you got all this work pools here. Federal government says we can only hire a minority.” They hired White women. White women considered to be minority, there wasn’t none out there. [Laughter] So therefore, here we go.

	W:	Are you saying—and I know I’m saying more for this, that the whole purpose for all of these different tiers was to keep Black men from being promoted?

	G:	Exactly, exactly, exactly.



	W:	--That had been working there for decades.



	G:	Decades. When I went there, there was some guys out there that had been there thirty years and they was on the bottom. I’m like, “Why are y’all still on the bottom?” And there was several of us that hired in out there to manage, take the test and pass and everything, comes in and says, “Hey no, wait a minute.

Something ain’t right with this,” and everything. So, we started making some waves. And I didn’t have any friends but I was kind of like the young—I was full of it then. I was just ready to take ‘em on anyway. And so we fought it, we fought it





until they finally started it. But every time we fought in one area, they would have something for us in that area, like the majority and the minority—they’re hiring the women and everything. Now they supposed to make Blacks equal with the Whites, they would hire a woman and call her a minority. We would go fighting this battle here again.

	W:	What about now?



	G:	Like I said, I been gone five years and everything and then now they just—they don’t do a lot of hiring now because everything is so automated. So I don’t really know how the process is now but I know there are a lot more women and there are a lot more Blacks out there now then there was when I was out there. I would say the ratio—if there was about six-hundred out there—I’d say the ratio is probably a third Black and that’s great. And way back when they first started that mill and it was something like twenty-five hundred to three thousand people out there and everything, most of them were Black. You know why? Because it was all physical work trying to get that wood off that truck into what they call a flume so they can use it to go. And it took a lot of people and a lot of work. They came in and automated with cranes where they can use something big, so they laid off a lot of people they needed. And the first ones to go was the Blacks. It’s a lot better than it was out there but we have our own faults. I tell kids all the time: Don’t let the system fail You. Don’t let the system get you kicked out. Just because you can’t do a certain thing, find another way. Find another way to just get that education, because they can’t take that education away from you. I fought a lot of battles out there on my own but one thing I had—and I got this





from an older guy that was out there—he said, “The one thing they can’t take from you is what you know.” I learned every piece of equipment out there in that department that I’m with. I didn’t have to be on that job. If I came in on the bottom in that department, I made sure I learned that bottom job, and I learned the top one and everything in between. I was able to operate any piece of equipment in that whole department at any given time. And they knew it. And it don’t matter how much my name came up for fighting through the thing, well, you know, “If so- and-so don’t come in today, Robert’ll be able to operate it.” And they know production would have kept on going so I made myself valuable to them, so to speak. And a lot of times—I almost got fired several times for my certain way, running my mouth, talking to people and just downright [inaudible 01:35:31] but I always ended up coming back through the grace of God because I had every piece of equipment and that’s why I think—and before I left when I was doing training, I used to tell most of the Blacks that came through out there, I said, “Look, don’t sit on your butt. Learn something, get something in that head. Learn about that equipment. On your breaks when you ain’t doing nothing, go out. I used to ask them guys questions all the time, every day, all every day. “Look man, why don’t you take a break and sit in here? I’ll go check your piece of equipment. But you got to tell me what I got to check and what I’m checking now.” And that’s how I’d do it. They’re talking about, “Go check this here,” I said, “Why?” “Well because if you don’t check this and this don’t do this this happen then they [trailing off]. Don’t take you long, you start putting it together and about every other day you go to ‘em and say, “Look take your break and kick back, I





got this for you.” And they’ll think, “He’s a good ol’ boy.” But I said, “You’ve got to feed me something. I can’t check your job if you ain’t told me nothing. And all the time I was learning it, and that’s where you learn to beat the system. Because the system will beat you if you don’t learn to beat it. And that’s with anyone. Young ladies, y’all getting into the work force. When you get out there in the work force, there’s gonna be some good and some bad. There’s gonna be some people that you think gon’ be promoted around you that you don’t think should’ve gotten promoted around you. But just hold on. Just start learning, just start getting in what you need, what you feel that you need, start learning all what you need to learn and everything and when your day comes, when your time comes to shine, you know everything, “I can do this!” “Really?” “Yeah, I can do this.” Bam. Instead of, “I should have had that job. I’m through with this. I ain’t gonna—” we got too many quitters in this new generation. They’re ready to throw in the towel. If they can’t get their way, they gotta stay there. Stay with it. Y’all remember that. I told y’all that. Y’all stick with it.

	W:	Heard it here first.



	G:	Stick with it because it will pay off. Learn, learn, learn, learn, learn, learn, learn, learn! Everybody else may be in the break room cutting up and everything, you be out there on it. And the more you learn the more valuable you is. If not there, somewhere. Stay with it.

	W:	Thank you. Thank you so much for your interview and for your time. L:	Yeah we really appreciate it.





















[End of interview]





Transcribed by: Abby Lovett





	Audit edit by:	Kasamba Kokayi April 30, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 3, 2021