AAHP 492; Butler; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 492 Gussie Butler

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Sherry Sherrod Dupree on May 10, 2017

55 minutes | 26 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 492

Interviewee: Gussie Butler Interviewer: Sherry Sherrod Dupree Date: May 10, 2017



	D:	Good afternoon, Mr. Butler. My name is Sherry Sherrod Dupree. I’m representing the oral history program at the University of Florida. We are located in Pugh Hall. Today is May the 10th of 2017 and I am at the home of Mr. Butler in Gainesville, Florida. Mr. Butler would you give me your full name?

	B:	Gussie Henry Butler. Born Wednesday July 13,1927.



	D:	Mr. Gussie Henry Butler in Gainesville, Florida. And Mr. Butler it’s such a beautiful day out here. It is about 95 degrees and we’re in Gainesville, Florida and the sun is shining bright, beautiful blue sky. So it is a wonderful day for an interview. We are at his home and we are sitting in his living room area. We have with us Mr. Fields. Mr. Fields would you introduce yourself?

	T:	Yes, my name is Thomas Lee Fields. From Gainesville, Florida also. D:	All right. And you are a friend of Mr. Butler’s?

	T:	Been a friend of his for over, God, 30 years or 35 years.



	D:	I see. This is beautiful. Mr. Butler we are going to start with your early age. Would you tell us who your parents were?

	B:	My father is Samuel Butler. My mother is Mary Butler. Born in St. Stephens, South Carolina.

	D:	Saint Stephens, South Carolina. So they were born in South Carolina. And how did you get to Florida?

	B:	My parents brought me here in 1931 and we stayed until 1933. Then we went back to South Carolina. I came back in 1948 on my own.

	D:	I see. Do you have sisters and brothers?





	B:	I have one sister living, one deceased. One brother living, one deceased. D:	Could you give me their names, please?

	B:	My older sister, her name was Eulabelle Fold. My baby sister’s name is Matty Lee Peoples. My baby brother is named is Ivory Joecephus Butler and the other brother’s name is Edward Butler.

	D:	So four, you make the fifth child. So all of you were born in South Carolina? B:	Yes.

	D:	Where did you attend school? B:	Saint Stephens, South Carolina.

	D:	In Saint Stephens, South Carolina? B:	Graduated in 1947.

	D:	1947! All right! Do you remember any of your teachers?



B:   I have all the teachers’ name and everything here but I can’t see them. D:   All right. We’ll have Mr. Fields to name those teacher’s names for you. B:   Let’s see if I can find it.

	D:	That’s wonderful you have all these names here. B:	That’s my infantry case.

	D:	All right. The graduation from Saint Stephens High School. B:	I’ll hold that for you.

	D:	I’ll get the pictures of this after we complete the interview. But anyway it has the class roll. It has the class officers. And then it has a very nice program for the high school graduation in Saint Stephens, South Carolina. Thank you. Now once





you graduated from high school. This is wonderful that you saved so much of this history. Are you going to give me the names of your teachers?

	B:	I did have them down here.



	D:	It takes a few minutes. We’ll get it done. F:	You got your class roll.

	D:	You got your class roll. Wow! This is history! What I’ll do after we’re done I’ll film this separate so we can go forward. Now Mr. Butler you had kind of a small class.

	B:	Yes. All of their names are on there.



	D:	About 21 people in your high school class. You’ve even got your class colors of garnet and white.

	B:	I still have it in the placemat.



	D:	Oh my goodness! And a white carnation! B:	Yes.

	D:	This is wonderful. I am so pleased that you save this. And like I said I will film this at the end so we will have a good copy.

	B:	Okay.



	D:	Yeah. This is wonderful. So now after you finished high school.



	B:	I worked on the farm for a while. I came here and I started working at Alachua General then I went in service. And after service this is where I went to school.

	D:	All Right. So then you went to Tyler Barber College. And this is his certificate. Mr.



Gussie H. Butler has completed the 1,000-hour course in barber science and is fully qualified to follow the practices of his profession given under the hand and





seal on the 12th day of March of 1956, Tyler Bible College and it is signed by Joyce Lou Smith. Very good. Thank you. And we will come back and get another image of that at the end of the time that we talk. Excellent. And then you said you went toward the military?

	B:	Yes.



	D:	All right. Merry Christmas 1951. 517 military police company. And how do you pronounce this in Japan?

	B:	Yokohama.



	D:	Yokohama. Happy New Years and of course this is the military police service company in Yokohama Japan. So how long were you in Japan?

	B:	I think from 1951-1952.



	D:	And you worked with the military police service company in Yokohama. And it has all the names of you here. Goodness, goodness and all these names. And it has a Christmas dinner which was December 25 of 1951. And I think I see your name in here. Right. Well what we will do is come back and film it.

	B:	I did the prayer.



	D:	You did the prayer for the dinner which was shrimp cocktail, roast young tom turkey, oh my goodness, poultry dressing, giblets, cranberry sauce, snowflake potatoes, candied sweet potatoes, wow you all had a wonderful meal here. Fresh lima beans, buttered fresh corn, celery hearts, lettuce wedges and a French dressing here, pickles, olives, fresh apples, oh my goodness, fruitcake, mince pie, ice cream, Parker’s house rolls, bread, butter, coffee, this was quite a meal that we served here.





	B:	It was Christmas Day.



	D:	Christmas Day. Oh my goodness this is a wonderful menu. And like I said I will take the time and copy all of these pages and save it from the military police service company in Yokohama Japan Happy New Year 1951. Thank you. This is beautiful history. And what else were you involved in while you were in the military?

	B:	That was my assignment and I got out of service you know and then I had to do.



They didn’t. I went in the reserves. I didn’t get my discharge until 1956.



	D:	Until 1956. So you spent quite a few years in the military? B:	In the reserves.

	D:	In the reserves. But you were still military right? And where were you in the reserves?

	B:	Right here. But we had to go to Jacksonville. D:	So you in Gainesville?

	B:	Yes. But we couldn’t go to the post here because it wasn’t integrated.



	D:	So you had to go to the post in Jacksonville? To the post here was segregated? B:	Yeah. To Camp Blanding.

	D:	So tell me a little bit about that. I’d like to know about that history.



	B:	When I went in to the service, President Truman, he integrated the service in 1950. But before then when I went to [Fort Jackson] Columbia South Carolina and took my basic training. That’s when they integrated. When I got over to Japan it was still segregated. In [19]51 they integrated.

	D:	So they integrated in Japan before you came back to the states?





	B:	Yeah.



	D:	I see. But when you got here you were still segregated for the reserves and you had to go to Jacksonville. So tell me a little bit about how it was over in Jacksonville?

	B:	It was fine. You just wanted to go and stay on the weekend and come back. Your job allowed you to do that.

	D:	What role did you play in the reserves? B:	Just regular basic training.

		D:		Regular basic training. So how often did you have to travel to Jacksonville? B:	Set up like every 90 days.

	D:	So every three months you’d have to go to Jacksonville. Did you get any pay for that?

	B:	Yeah they paid me.



	D:	What was your pay at that time? B:	About $110 a month.

	D:	About $110 month. That was a lot of money for that day. So then you were here serving as a barber.

	B:	Yeah. After I did. And I worked at Alachua General. D:	And you were working at Alachua General.

	B:	Um huh.



	D:	So you were a busy man. B:	See that?

	D:	I’m going to turn the camera around.





	B:	Can you read this?



	D:	I’m trying to get a close view of it. Brother Fields can you get a closer look at that for me? I think it said 33 years at AGA employee retirees. And it has a picture of you there? This is wonderful. I’ll get that at the end and I’ll also sort of pan over to the next item you have Miami Dade Community College?

	B:	No. That’s my son. D:	Oh. That’s your son.

	B:	What mine is. See the Masonic.



	D:	I’m trying to see that one. Oh Okay, you are a Mason? B:	Right.

	D:	And this is another one down there. Can you pull that one up Mr. Fields? Hold that one up a moment. And that one is saying what?

	F:	He is a member of Rising Lodge Number 10 PM Gussie Butler. Outstanding Services rendered brother Aaron Green 2015.

	B:	Read this one right here. The other one for her. That one right there.



	F:	Mr. Gussie Butler, honorable post master, Rising Sun, Lodge Number 10. D:	Lodge Number 10.

	B:	Now read that one, that little one right there.



	F:	First Joseph Duncan award to Brother Gussie Butler for services above and beyond the call to Rising Sun Lodge.

	D:	Wonderful. The Rising Sun Lodge is here in Gainesville. B:	Yeah.

	D:	And it’s still active here?





	B:	Yeah.



	D:	Uh-huh. So what year did you go into the Masonics? B:	1959.

	D:	1959. So you’ve been in for an awful long time. Well thank you for sharing that.



But I want to go back to the military a little bit. Can you give me a little background as to your basic training in the military?

	B:	Well I took my basic training in Columbia South Carolina [Fort Jackson] on Tank Hill, 61st Infantry.

	D:	And what is that? Tank Hill? B:	Tank Hill.

	D:	And where is that?



	B:	It’s in Columbia South Carolina.



	D:	Columbia South Carolina. Was it segregated at that time?



	B:	Well they integrated while I was there. Under President Truman.



D:  Under President Truman. Uh-huh. I see. Any stories you want to tell us about the military? Your trip to Japan? Or any of the things that would be of interest?

B:  Well after I finished my basic training I had ten days delayed route and I went to South Carolina to visit my parents and I had to do all this in ten days and I came back to Gainesville and I caught the train and I got into Pittsburgh California and made a tent in 1951. And I board the General Pope out of San Francisco.

D:   And what was that?



B:  The ship. The General Pope. We spend 14 days going over to Japan and after I pulled my duty over there I came back on another ship, the Butland.





	D:	The Butland?



	B:	The Butland was the name of the ship we came on. And we came back to Seattle, Washington.

	D:	Okay. So you came back in on the Pacific.



	B:	And we got back they put us on a plane and flew us to Columbia, South Carolina where I got discharged.

	D:	Yes. Uh-huh. Wow. Now when you were in the military what services did you render. In Japan, I know you were with the police. Did you do other services as well?

	B:	No. It was just like a regular job. You do five days. We done eight hours. And we do five days, off two, go back two and by doing that you get a week off all the time.

	D:	So what were some of the kinds of things that you did on duty?



	B:	We patrolled. And we had gang plank. We had check points. You didn’t do one thing all the time. You may do patrol sometime. And then you did check point some time. And if you did check point you had go to a center dock. And sometime we had to go down to Tokyo because it was only 50 miles from Tokyo and we were only about 20 miles from Yukosuka that was where the Naval base.

	D:	And did you learn language while you were there?



	B:	Uh. Very little. [Laughter] just the things you want to know, ohayou is good morning, miso is water, uchi ni oide is come to me, sayonara is good bye.

	D:	Well I knew the sayonara. That’s the only one I knew [Laughter]. Tell me some of your buddies. Some of the people that were in the military with you.





	B:	It’s sad to say but I got news this morning one of the men I knew passed. They called me this morning. Rev. John Peterson.

	D:	Rev. John Peterson. And where was he living?



	B:	He lived here in Gainesville. He passed away this morning. D:	Rev. John Peterson. And where did he go to Church?

	B:	He belonged to Johnson’s Chapel. D:	Johnson’s Chapel.

	B:	And he pastored in Old Town. D:	In Old Town.

	B:	I can’t think of the name of the church.



	D:	That’s enough. We can still find out who he was and more about him. Were there any others that were here in Gainesville with you?

	B:	Yeah. They all passed on.



	D:	Well you can give us the name.



	B:	Charles Perry. He’s passed on. And another this may not be his right name but we all called him Zeany boy. And we had a James Smith. All were from Gainesville. And we were all in the service together. But we got separated when we got in California.

	D:	Why did they separate you?



	B:	No you would be assigned to different areas.



	D:	Oh they assigned you to different areas. Uh-huh. Now you guys met each other in the service or did you know each other before?

	B:	I knew them before.





	D:	So they were from Gainesville. Were any of the fellows from South Carolina that you knew? Maybe from your class?

	B:	My classmate, he got killed in Korea. Roosevelt Basco. He is in the book I gave you. They shipped his body back home while I was in the service.

	D:	So what did you like about the military?



	B:	I liked it good enough to get out on time. [Laughter] Because it changed. I was able to go to school and use my G.I. Bill.

	D:	There were certain things about the G.I. Bill because there were certain aspects of it that were not open to African American men and women at that time. Did you have any of those concerns?

	B:	No it worked fine for me.



	D:	And that’s how you went to barber school. B:	Yeah. That’s right.

	D:	And how about your family?



	B:	I was married twice. Both of my wives are deceased.



	D:	Both of your wives are deceased. Could you give me the names of your wives please?

	B:	Earnestine.



	D:	And what year did you all marry? B:	In [19]55.

	D:	1955. And what was her maiden name? B:	Haile.

	D:	Haile. H-A-I-L-E. And did you have any children.







B:



D:

One daughter.



And is she with us?

B:

Yes.

D:

And what is her name?

B:

Portia Barton.

D:

And where is your daughter now? Is she in Florida or in some other state?

B:

She’s here.

D:

In Gainesville! Oh well that’s wonderful. So you have a daughter here. And then



you had a second wife.

B:

Yeah. But between my second wife I met a young lady. It did not work out getting



married. And we have a son. That is the one here with me.

D:

And what is his name?

B:

Steven Henry Butler.

D:

And he’s in Gainesville.

B:

That’s his.

D:

This is his certificate of spiritual education.

B:

That one over there.

F:

Associate of Arts and Bachelor’s degree.

D:

I’m trying to get a little bigger on here. All right. So where is he employed.

B:

He is at the University and he also runs...

F:

Actors’ Warehouse. You’ve seen that name in the paper.

D:

Actors’ Warehouse. Uh-huh. Yes, I’ve heard of Actors’ Warehouse.

F:

His picture is in the paper.





	B:	He is the director.



	D:	Director of the Actors’ Warehouse? And his name again? B:	Steven Henry Butler.

	F:	He’s in the paper all the time.



	D:	Excellent. Okay. Does he have family as well? F:	He’s single.

	B:	No. He stays here with me.



	D:	Okay. And he’s at the Actors’ Warehouse here in Gainesville. So you have one son and one daughter. Just two in your family. Well let’s move on.

	B:	Well, my second wife. She had two daughters when we got married. The Lord blessed us. She passed away twenty years ago on March 8th. Because we buried her on the 15th didn’t we?

	F:	In Jacksonville.



	D:	She was here in Gainesville? B:	She was a school teacher.

	D:	What did she teach? Or what school?



	B:	She was at Littlewood. She was at Archer a while and Duval a while. F:	She went back and got a Master’s didn’t she?

	D:	So what year did she pass? B:	[19]97.

	F:	He been beatin’ around ever since then. One wing.



	D:	Say one wing? [Laughter] You’ve had two good wives and you’ve had two children.





	B:	And the two girls.



	D:	Now tell me about her daughters.



	B:	Joy Banks. You might have run across her.



	D:	Oh Joy Banks, the pianist. She’s your daughter? Yes. B:	And Cheryl [McFadden] with the State of Florida.

	F:	Health Department.



	D:	At the health department. Now where is Joy working? Because I know she is a wonderful musician.

	B:	She’s got her own business.



	D:	Now I remember now when your wife died. Because I remember Joy. I’ve known her for a long time. But I didn’t know or make any connection now. Because I know Joy. And I remember the situation. Uh-huh. So life is wonderful.

	B:	Uh-huh.



	D:	Now tell me a little about your church life? F:	Uh oh.

	B:	That’ll tell you up there.



	D:	Now he [Mr. Fields] is going bring that one down off the wall. Now Mr. Fields what does that one say? I can’t.

	F:	Something dropped off me.



	D:	His microphone fell off. We’ll get the microphone back on.



	F:	It says Deacon Gussie Butler ordained in 1970 served actively and faithfully for 36 years. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much James 5:16 Effective this day February 19, 2006. Honorable recognition bestowed upon





Deacon Gussie Butler Emeritus still on the battlefield for the Lord. The spirit indeed is willing but the flesh is week Matthew 26.41 Thank you for your faithful service to Mount Carmel Baptist Church Deacon Board Chairman Andrew Mickle James Turk Joe Richardson Nathaniel Willis Eddie Cummings James Geeter Roney Jones Joe Jacobs Adrain Allen Bruce Williams Larry Adams Laurence Alexander Rev. Dr. Thomas A. Wright Pastor.

	D:	So you put in a lot of years in Gainesville.



	B:	I served as Chairman of the 100th, when the Church was 100 years old. We had never had an anniversary.

	D:	You had never had a church anniversary?



	B:	We found we had never had a church anniversary until I served as Chairman.



	F:	Since the Church has celebrated its Centennial love has kept us together by faith Sunday May 26th 1996. 11am Rev. Dr. Thomas A. Wright, Minister. The first church anniversary.

	D:	The first church anniversary and it was a hundred years old. B:	And I was the chairman of it.

	D:	Uh-huh. So you’ve been extremely active in your community.



B:   And I served 17 years as Chairman of the deacon board and did I give it to you? F:   This ordination over here. He got ordained September 28, 1970 at 3 o’clock PM. D:  All right. 1970.

F:   Yep. At Mount Carmel Baptist Church.



	D:	You’ve been extremely active in your community. And this is what we like to know. This is beautiful.





	F:	I’m gonna put this back over here.



	B:	I thought I had my thing the way I had my certificate. You read that didn’t you. F:	Yes we did. Some pictures fell out of here. I’ve got it.

	B:	This right here?



	D:	Mr. Butler, do you have any of your military materials here? B:	Nothing that I have. I showed you this one didn’t I?

	D:	Yes. Uh-huh. But that was beautiful. That was very, very nice. How about your travels over the years?

	B:	Oh! [Laughter]



	F:	You got an hour?



	D:	Yeah, we need to hear those!



	B:	I went to my first national Baptist convention in 1965. It was in Jacksonville at the coliseum. I have made 26 national Baptist conventions. Never did fly. I think the first one I drove to was Cleveland Ohio.

	D:	Did you go as a delegate?



	B:	No. I always went as an independent. This is the one I drove to Cleveland Ohio.



	D:	All right. I’m going to have to see that a little later? And you drove to all these places?

	B:	Let me see. It’s only one time that I went as a group. I went to South Carolina and my home town church where I was Baptized and growed up because my home town church where I was Baptized and I taught Sunday school for a while. During the [19]40s because I was baptized in 1944. After I was baptized in 1944 they let me teach Sunday school and everything until I came down here.





	D:	What was the name of your church in South Carolina? B:	Saint Stephen Baptist.

	D:	Saint Stephen’s Baptist Church, uh-huh. And then when you moved into Florida where did you affiliate?

	B:	Mount Carmel.



	D:	Mount Carmel. The whole time.



	B:	And once I was in Texas going to school I joined a church under Rev. Moses B. Tims. True Vine.

	D:	True Vine?



	B:	Yeah.



	D:	Baptist?



	B:	Under Watchcare.



	D:	Yes. Uh-huh. Under Watchcare.



	B:	Rev. Moses B. Tims. He was some minister. And during the time I was in Tyler Texas there was Butler College in Tyler Texas and they moved it to Dallas and there was Bishop College. And as I was attending the convention and thing, Dr. Scholl who was our national president, he was talking, and I said you finished Bishop, he said yeah, you know they moved that school and made it part of Monroe College in Florida and he said yeah. And I said did you know Rev.

Moses B. Tims? He said, boy you know Tims? [Laughter] I said yeah and he said he was some preacher. And what I liked about that church they had a senior choir, then they had a gospel choir. The senior choir only sang hymns. The gospel choir sang. What I liked about the service and everything is when he got





ready to deliver his message because I can remember when my aunt died and I had to come back here to Florida. I’ll never forget his message that morning. His message was what is your name? My name is legions for we are many. This is the story about the man they had to chain him down with chains and everything and what I loved about the way he preached he would let them read the same sweet hour prayer and Jesus keep me near the cross and he said just listen to the music and it would look like the spirit come in the church and say yes lord have mercy. Jesus you know. Just listen to the music. The piano and the organ be playing and when he’d take his missives he looked just like he’s on an airplane and when he’d get through it looked like he just dropped here like that. He was some. I kept up with him until he passed. There was a minister who was up in Jacksonville. He went to Dallas. And he had a church with Dr. Wilson who was the pastor of Bethel Baptist Church in Jacksonville he went out to Dallas and he had a church out there and he knew Rev. Tims. And we meet at Lee Hill Southern Baptist and I would ask him about Brother Tims up until he passed.

	D:	Um huh. You really had a strong feeling.



	B:	And for the state convention. I attend 51 of those without any break. And brother Fields come down and find me sick in the motel what about two years ago?

	F:	Yeah. Two or three.



	B:	He find me sick. Church didn’t give me anything. I went on my own. My uncle took me. And started with me. And after my uncle passed. He was a minister. And after he passed Rev. Wright and I we kind of hooked up together. He would drive me and I would take care of the motel. [Laughter] And then we finally





reached Brother Fields and we got him tied up. He started driving. [Laughter] And that’s how between Brother Fields and Rev. Mayberry since I got blind. They do my transport.

	D:	Well you live well and you’ve treated people well so they’re giving it back. F:	All right.

	D:	And that’s what you expect. B:	Right.

	D:	That’s what Christianity is, to help each other.



	B:	Service deepen together and believe it or not when brother Fields went into the ministry I went to class with him. [Laughter]

	D:	Good!



	B:	But I shouldn’t tell this but it is the truth. Really the reason I came to Florida, the minister who did our baccalaureate ceremony he told me so much about Mary McLeod Bethune and I was hoping to go to Cookman, but I wound up at AGH but I got a product, my wife she finished at Bethune-Cookman.

	D:	So you still have a hand there! B:	Yeah.

	D:	I used to teach at Bethune-Cookman.



	B:	Yeah. But really my desire when I left home, I wanted to go into the ministry. But when I came and saw what ministers had to go through, I said no, I don’t want to be that. I tell people this. I had desire to be a minister, but I never did get the calling. I never did get the calling.

	D:	Well you have to know that.





	B:	So I told my uncle, he was a minister, and he said, boy, if you don’t got the calling don’t bother with it. So I said well, when I got a chance to be a deacon and went through the class and everything, the church had reject me. Deacon Franklin and Rev. Wright they really pushed for me to get ordained and then when the nominations committee brought my name up to be chairman, they rejected me and we had to put it to a vote. But I won out. And the reason I stayed so long as chairman is because we’d been building this church out here. And they, the people, the faithful members, they tell it right, Gussie’s working with you. He working with you just let him stay there. And that’s how I got it. But I knew that they didn’t want me to care about me being a deacon. But what I done, I was supposed to be ordained that Sunday, and that Thursday night I laid down and I said Lord, show me if you want me to be a deacon and I just went on and went to sleep and I didn’t dream I didn’t see nothing. And when I got up, went to the restroom and no one was in the house with me and I got to brushing my teeth a song came to me and said where he lead me I shall follow. And the more I brush, tears started coming out of my eyes. I started crying. I went to the barber shop to my uncle there and I told him and he said boy, go into the church and let them put your hand on your head.

	D:	And that’s what they did.



	B:	That’s what they done. But I had want the Lord to show me if he want me to take the job or not. And then when I told him the name of the psalm I started singing. [Laughter]

	D:	It was your justification.





	B:	And I served there and they honored me before Rev. Wright left and now I am deacon emeritus. I still go.

	D:	Well that’s a beautiful story and you showed how Lord can maneuver. B:	Yeah.

	D:	But it’s not when you want it is when he got ready to tell you. And it comes in a simple form. Always simple, nothing hard to remember.

	B:	Yeah.



	D:	That is beautiful. Is there anything else that you would like to share that we would save for future generations? Any statements you’d like to give? Are you a musician? Do you have any favorite songs? What is it you would like to be remembered for?

	B:	Brother Fields and I used to lead devotion together. He knew how him and I work together. We just lost one of our best friends, Margarita. And I’m telling you we were close together.

	D:	L.C. Hunt? Oh yes, he was the moderator. B:	He was moderator.

	D:	Oh yes, yes. I’m going to his brother’s church in Chiefland. F:	Walter?

	D:	Yes. Yes. We are going June 16th for Rosewood. B:	Oh yeah!

	D:	We’re taking a group from the University of Florida. That’s what my meeting was this morning.





	F:	Remember Liz Watson? Liz Peters? Liz Rivers over in Archer. She was my school teacher back in the day.

	D:	Oh wonderful!



	B:	Is she the one that wrote this book?



	D:	Let me see. That one is, let me see. Which one is this? Gainesville or Alachua County?

	B:	Alachua County.



	D:	This was Liz Jenkins. I have a copy of that. She was a teacher. That’s right. Any other good things you’d like to say or share? Family? Any sayings you’d like to give to the young people? Any of those things that would be of support to us in the future? And to people who don’t know you and have a chance to listen to this. What do you want them to take away?

	B:	I’m going to say to the young people, be faithful, be honest, and they have better opportunity than we had when we was coming on. Because when I start working at Alachua General Hospital I work six days a week, ten hours for $22.50 per week. And the sad thing about it. I would live with my uncle. Now this is what I wish young people would do. Obey your parents. My uncle was just like my father to me. And when I got my first $22.50 check I went and ask how much do you want of this? He said I don’t want none of it. I don’t want a penny. You go and you give Jo, that’s my aunt, five dollars and I want ten dollars to put up for you because when I came from South Carolina I had, my grandmother said to me, boy, where those breeches you gonna wear to Florida? I said. She cut the lining in my pants and sewed up $150 in there. And when I give it to my uncle he





asked me how did I get that $150? Do I gamble? I said no. He took me downtown and open up a bank account and I had to give him ten dollars every week to put up for me and give his wife five [dollars], that was fifteen, I give my girlfriend five [dollars] and there were $2.50. [Laughter]

	D:	What did you have for eating and other activities?



	B:	We had two meals a day that the hospital give us. The day that I would be off, they give us tips, you could get tips on back then, sometime I would make eight or nine dollars worth of tips, and that’s how I would survive. And so the days when I was off, one day off a week, I would have money to buy and I would go to Miss Annie McCray and I’d say Annie what you got today? And she’d say I got everything on the pig but the squeal. Whole pig, pig ass, pig tail. [Laughter] And she’d give me a big old plate of lima beans and pig tail and pigs feet and wrap it up in some newspaper and I’d eat half of it then and put the other part in the ice box. We had ice boxes. Rev. Newberry know what I’m about to tell right now.

When it got so we could buy a refrigerator, Goodyear would put a refrigerator in your house and they could connect it up to a little gadget like you used to play a piccolo. You had to drop a quarter in there every day in order to have ice. [Laughter] And then they would come around and rob it.

	D:	Who would come and rob it? B:	Goodyear! The store!

	D:	So Goodyear was making money off you.



	B:	You see that’s how you paid for your refrigerator. D:	Oh! I see!





	B:	Because it had that little thing. Now Rev. Mayberry’s father would come down every so often and say do you have some quarters because I won’t have no ice. [Laughter] And that’s how we was able to, you see because we couldn’t [get] credit, you know. And you put things on layaway.

	D:	And how did you get a stove and other things in your house?



	B:	You had to pay for them. But you see before then you had ice boxes and the ice man come around. So when the refrigerators come in and they wouldn’t let you get it on time or nothing like that so they hook up that gadget to it.

	D:	And so you paid every time you got ice.



	B:	Every time. A quarter would last you 24 hours. D:	Oh okay.

	B:	You see what I mean? D:	Yes I do.

	B:	That quarter acted just like you do when you put a nickel or a dime in it would last and that’s how they had it rigged up.

	D:	Uh-huh.



	B:	Now the Reverend and I laugh about that because that’s what his mother and father did, they live upstairs.

	D:	Let me ask you did you know anything about the atrocities that happened in Alachua County or in Florida such as the Rosewood Six or the Newberry Massacre or the Groveland Four or any of those.

	B:	That was over before I came here.



	D:	Oh that was long over because you didn’t come here until [19]48.





	B:	But I heard. Now I was down in Rosewood when the Governor came down there and spoke and Rev. Wright and I were down there.

	D:	Yes. Everybody was on the platform.



	B:	I was and my picture was taken and they saw me on TV. D:	Yes. I was there too.

	B:	I was there. Jeff Jones and Rev Thorpe. D:	Rev. Thorpe, that’s my pastor.

	B:	That’s when I travelled with Rev. Wright because he asked me to drive. Now I went down to Cedar Key crabbing and all like that. And go out and eat and all that. But you know they still, did you hear over the news what they done. Went back down to Rosewood and what they done? They done some damage, some people done like that? This week?

	D:	This week?



	B:	Yeah.



	F:	It was on the news.



	D:	OK then I’ll have to get it.



	B:	And that monument they put there. The forever tearing it up.



	D:	Yeah one year they said it had so many bullet holes in it they had to take it down and do repair work. That’s right.

	B:	I went to Sarasota and there’s a minister there by the name of Rev. Blocker. He used to pastor at Greater Bethel. And he said that’s the last he saw his father. His father put them on the train and they went to Tampa. And I heard Rev Blocker at the last supper, he preached on that Sunday when I was down there





and he preached about this fellow that kill 600 men with an article or so, he done a good job. I remember when he was the pastor there, but he’s past on.

	D:	Yes. Well I want to thank you for taking your time today to talk to us and to share history with others in the years to come. I’m at the home of Mr. Butler in Gainesville, Florida along with Mr. Fields. And we’ve been here close to one hour talking and discussing some of his attributes and things that he would like to have remembered in history. My name is Sherry Sherrod DuPree and the day is May 10, 2017 and we have been here for almost one hour. I want to thank you so much for your time and for your energy and I’m gonna cut this off in a moment and then I’m going to copy your materials.

[End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Lawrence D. Reynolds October 30, 2017 Audio Edited by:	Sandra Romero December 6, 2018

	Final Edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019