AAHP 039; Bailey; Page 2





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 039 Lee Bailey

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on February 7, 2009

8 minutes | 6 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Lee Bailey discusses his experience of being one of the first African American students at the University of Florida at the Celebrate the Firsts Weekend Gala. He attended UF to study music education, then went back to school to be a registered nurse. He feels a great sense of pride and accomplishment in being one of the “Firsts” at UF.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Celebrate the Firsts; Integration]



Standards

1. SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 039

Interviewer: Marna Weston, with Joel Buchanan Interviewee: Lee Bailey

Date: February 7, 2009



		W:		…Mr. Lee Bailey. And, what year did you get your degree here, sir? B:	I think it was 1975. And that’s terrible to say, “I think it was”—

	W:	Oh, no no no. It’s okay.



	B:	I graduated in 1975. Music Education. And I moved from here and I went to Columbia, South Carolina, where I didn’t even do music. I did something else. I went and start working with the Department of Mental Health as a nurse’s aide. And, I did that for about eight years and then I went back to school for LPN, and then I went back again for RN. I was playing at churches, now, all along, you know; I’m playing in bands, and I just—it’s almost like I redid it, you know. But, the University of Florida influenced me a lot, because it gave me such a high sense of self-esteem that I could come in a school—especially during that time, the way integration was—and make it. Even when it looked like everything was saying no, I still did it. And I know God was a great part of it. You know. But it was a good sense. And this capped it off, just being able to come back here. Because for years, I almost thought it didn’t matter that much—on the other hand. And then when this happened, I see how important that that time was. I feel a great sense of pride that I did this. I mean, I put everything else down. When I told people in the church that I was coming back for this type of program, they were so proud [inaudible 1:34], everybody stood up. I almost didn’t understand it. I say “I know I was Black, but I was just doing what you did. We were just trying to go to school and learn. I didn’t know nobody was going think it was this special.” And, yet, it is, and I’m grateful. And I feel like it was worth it all.





	W:	So, let me just hold for one second. B:	Okay.

		W:	Joel, how are you this evening? JB:		I’m wonderful. How are you?

	W:	Terrific. I wanted to know—we just got started—if you would care to join us? JB: Excuse me?

	W:	We just got started. I was wondering if you’d, perhaps, care to join in in this interview?

JB:  [Inaudible 2:05]



	W:	That will be terrific. Thank you. Professor Buchanan has been working on interviews in Gainesville and North Florida for years, so he is kind of the person we all look to, in terms of oral history. All right, recontinuing the interview with Mr.

Bailey. Mr. Bailey, when were you born?



	B:	I was born May 17, 1952 in Camilla, Georgia. W:	And, could you tell me a little about your family?

	B:	Well, my grandfather owned a grocery store—not a full grocery store, just like a community store in a town called Pelham. And he had a little juke joint, and he owned that too, but I think his health started getting bad. And he needed to move to another climate. So, I think that’s when he moved to Miami. I was about five years old, and we moved down there, and then we made a life down there. And I was educated in the public school system in Dade County.

	W:	What elementary did you go to?



	B:	I went to Phyllis Wheatley Elementary, and Dunbar Elementary, and West Dunbar.





	W:	Okay. How about middle school?



	B:	Middle school was Robert E. Lee Junior High School, and that the first little integration experience I had. And then, I went to Miami-Jackson for high school. And that was another integration experience. But by the time I got there, we already sort of were in. [Laughter]. And, that was a good experience. I learned a lot in high school. And that’s when I heard about the University of Florida.

	W:	And, what year was this?



	B:	1970 is when I graduated, and I remember when I was worried about where I was going to go, and could I get a full scholarship someplace—because you know, the shortage of money. It wasn’t like I had it like that. But, by the help of a loan and a grant, I was able to come in a special program they had at the University of Florida to get more minorities in. That’s what helped me a lot. And then, once I got here, I just saw a whole new world. And I know it was a lot of racism, I know it was a lot of everything, but it didn’t affect me as bad because we formed a choir. And we used to encourage one another, you know, with that group. We would go to our classes, we would be a support group, we would help each other with studying and doing the work of school, and we made it. That’s sort of it in a nutshell.

	W:	Why the University of Florida?



	B:	The University of Florida was one of Florida’s leading schools, and I felt like if I got a degree from here, I would be able to have a good life. I knew University of Miami was there in Miami, but that was a private school, and that was a little difficult, and they were more expensive. [Laughter] And, the University of Florida just that opportunity for me, so I just took advantage of it. And it worked.





	W:	What was a high point and a low point of your University of Florida student experience?

	B:		My high point was just being able to graduate. Something similar to what other folks say: just being able to graduate. The low point almost was leaving, too, because I enjoyed being here! [Laughter] I just enjoyed the camaraderie what we had with other Black students. And, you know back in that time, all of the civil rights and stuff was going on, and we were bonding. And, you know, it was just good. I enjoyed it. I enjoyed the experience. It was good to graduate, but it was fair, too. So, I don’t know if I answered that, you know, well enough. [Laughter]

	W:		Oh, no. It was terrific. What are your hopes for the next fifty years for the University of Florida?

	B:	Fifty years! Fifty years at University of Florida? Well, I certainly hope more Blacks come in—well, African Americans come. Because you know, we’ve been so many names. [Laughter] Come and take advantage of this good situation, because it could be a real good situation.

	W:	This year, the Gator Nation has changed its slogan. B:	Uh-oh!

	W:	And, this year it’s, “When did you first know you were a Gator?” So, I’d like to ask you to reflect and let us know: when did you first know you were a Gator?

	B:	Well, you know I was a music major, right? So, I was on the marching band, and when I went to the first football game—even before we got where we were winning all these championships, we just won most of our games back then. But, it wasn’t like—nothing like this. And, I didn’t really even understand football that much, but I





learned how to appreciate the nuances of football, more than what the quarterback did. I start understanding what the lineman did. Then I noticed that if you did certain things, you would win. And the way that people responded to that. The first thing you know, I was hooked on that particular sport. That—I think football, that’s what gave me my great appreciation of the University of Florida. But I also felt good being a part of the Music department. That helped me a lot, too, and that made me feel a sense of being a Gator, too.

	W:	Do you have any words of wisdom for today’s African American student at University of Florida?

	B:	Well, we have to remember everything that has ever happened; however, we need to be able to go on, and take it like people do lemons: turn it into lemonade! And I know that’s easier said than done, but that’s what we have to do. And just go on and don’t be bitter, because we got to love, and that’s what I got from church. [Laughter] We got to love to make this whole thing work. And this place started me out and helped me with that. And throughout the years, I’ve learned that that’s what will get you through, if you can just love. I don’t care what people do to you, just be able to love and forgive. And then, we go on. And, that’s it.

	W:	Well, thank you Mr. Bailey. B:	Thank you, too.

	W:	We appreciate this opportunity to speak with you. B:	Thank you for—for tolerating this! [Laughter]

	W:	Thank you.





[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 18, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019