AAHP 558; Madison; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 558 Arthur Lee Madison Interviewed by Quanisha Madison on January 1, 2018

43 minutes | 24 pages



Abstract: Mr. Arthur Madison is interviewed here by his granddaughter Quanisha. He talks about family history, including growing up near Albany, Georgia, and how his father died after a mule kicked him hard in the chest. He shares memories from his childhood such as picking enough pecans to go to the movies later that same day, and also describes some of his parents’ history and that of his siblings, nieces, and nephews. Mr. Madison speaks on his Christian faith throughout the interview, and also chronicles some of the funerals the family held through the years.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Family History; Genealogy; Georgia]



AAHP 558

Interviewee: Arthur Lee Madison Interviewer: Quanisha Madison Date: January 20, 2018



	QM:	Hello my name is Quanisha Madison. We interviewed Arthur Lee Madison on January the 20th, 2018 for the Samuel Oral Proctor History Program, for the African American History Project.

[Break in recording]



	QM:	Okay, so could you please state your name. What’s your first name yeah? AM:	My name is Arthur Lee Madison.

	QM:	And where were you born?



	AM:	I was born in Sylvester, Georgia—Albany, Georgia basically, yeah. Albany, Georgia.

	QM:	Now, who are your parents?



	AM:	Jim Madison and Carrie Madison. QM:	And what type of work do they do? AM:	They worked in restaurants.

	QM:	Are there any special heirlooms, photos, Bibles, or other memorabilia that have been passed down in your family?

	AM:	Yeah, uh-huh. My brother, I had two brothers in ministering, and one of them passed away—two of them passed away—and nows I got a nephew. He minister, too. He live in Moultrie, Georgia.

	QM:	Okay. Were you ever mentioned in the newspaper before?



	AM:	Oh, well, a long time ago. When I was catching fish. [Laughter] They took a picture of me.

	QM:	Oh really? What happened with that? Why—





	AM:	I had so many fish, and they were so large. They guy from Gainesville Sun came out here and he took my picture. I saw it the next day. Yeah, it was all right.

	QM:	What accomplishments were you most proud of?



	AM:	Well, I used to going hunting, and I used to do hair. That’s back in upper [19]70s until the lower [19]80s. It wasn’t much money in the hair at that time, but now it is. And I got it now that I don’t do no hair; I got arthritis in my hands. So I can’t do no hair no more. But I went to cosmetology school. I got my license—got my junior license, and then I work up on a senior for a year. Then I got my senior license. I did a lot peoples’ hair. I mean, they come here through and I did the hair; and the lady say—Sherman Pearson, met him in New York, and she went—told her beautician, said “Who did your hair?” And he say, “A young man in Gainesville.” So she come down here on vacation out there in creek fishing. My girlfriend was Sarah. She owned the school. [Inaudible 2:40] She owned the school, but she made me [inaudible 2:44] the school. Because see, I do hair, and I do it good, too; I used to do it good! My first summer, I tried to do it the best I can. But I won’t be bothered with you.

	QM:	So, how did you met her?



	AM:	I met her, I was living here in Gainesville. In a house about half a block from my house. And I started going to school. So, I went and work the store in the daytime, and I go to school at night. Carve out time for schoolwork. And I got my license and everything, I went and made living. I do appreciate it; that’s my message. I loved working because I got a way to take care of myself. But at that time I didn’t want to do no hair; I wanted—I got my license and everything, I





could’ve did it. Could’ve kept my license up, but I didn’t. I didn’t. If you keep them up, you can still do hair. But I didn’t keep them up. I just said, “I’ll go fishing.” So I made more fishing them days; make more money fishing than doing hair.

Because it was about five dollars a head then. Yeah, it wasn’t no money. People would look for a lady to do hair while an old man working. Because when you do it by yourself, how much can you pay? And then, doing hair, you couldn’t [inaudible 4:02] how it going be. How it going be: up or down. When a lady work doing hair, the old man have to do the job working. It looked pretty hip, you know. But that’s the way it should be, but—me, I have [inaudible 4:15].

	QM:	Yeah. So, do you know the story of how your parents first met?



	AM:	They met in Morgan, Georgia. My dad and my mother, them two farmed one acre. My daddy was a half Indian. His sister was Indian. One lived to get to one hundred and seven years old in Jacksonville, Florida. My brother, older brother, just last year he had prostate cancer; he was ninety-three. We got long livers in our family. I told you a little about it. Long livers in our family, I said—he say, “Well, you should be out standing in [inaudible 5:01] because we ain’t nothing wrong with living in our family.” [Laughter] You done already heard, not afraid.

	QM:	Yeah. So, what happened to your father? When you—



	AM:	My father, the mule kicked him. To get some worms out the mule, had it tied with a rope, and when he put that stuff in the mule, put his [inaudible 5:22], mule jumped up and kicked him. Buck that thing. So he had something, what you call a heart dropping. Heart dropped when he kick him; oh, his legs swell up and everything. He want nobody take him to the doctor but me. I’m all alone, but he





going [inaudible 5:37], Momma say, “Your daddy out here. He don’t want nobody take him but you.” He called me—doctor called me and all after that I took my dad. He say, “He wants you to know he ain’t got long to live. He don’t want you to tell nobody but your brothers and sisters.” That’s what I did. I say, “He ain’t got long to live. He got a bash on the breast. And that’s—I didn’t tell nobody until it was overwith. He told me to not to tell ya’ll. He loveded me, he carry me everywhere he go. I’m his number one son. He’d [inaudible 6:06] Momma. [Laughter] In Georgia.

	QM:	How did you meet grandma—



	AM:	In Georgia? We were in the same neck of the woods. To paint a picture, I was living on a farm. Y’all don’t remember that. [Inaudible 6:19] for Granddaddy sometimes. He let me come if I do it right. He’s not my grandfather. But see, he— now, Daddy told me, “Y’all be catching my son make him good old man. I knew you’d make my son a little lady.” [Laughter] But it didn’t happen that way! I don’t know why.

	QM:	Yeah. So, what other things did you enjoy most about your father that you miss?



	AM:	Well, I enjoyed working, because I had to work. I worked all night sometimes. I would go up in an airplane and spray the crop down, spray the crop and come back up, and twists in tobacco and the weevils in the cotton field. And my boss man, about two nights—then on Saturday, he would go in for a fly, with another big shot friend of his, he was White. And he told me, I’ll just say this, you know: “Why don’t you go flying with us on Saturday?” “I would, but we’re having—I went to, the one who’s ninety-three years old, he told me my favorite picture was





playing on Saturday. So. I got me some pecan trees, I picked some pecan, and walked in to the store, I went to the town, and I got about four dollars for it. That’s a lot of money. You got to pay with twenty-five cents to go to the movies, and five cent per hotdog or something like that, and popcorn. I went there, and I didn’t go with him. I went to the movies. And first thing I come back, he say, “Your boss man hit a tree and went downhill, and his body is beyond recognition.” God kept me there. God kept me from that. He had some more work for me to do. And I were older, I’d’ve begged to go with him. My brother, [inaudible 8:07] saved me. If he didn’t told me that my favorite movie playing, I’d been gone and you wouldn’t never seen me.

	QM:	[Laughter] Yeah, I wouldn’t be born, either!



	AM:	Yeah, you wouldn’t be—hand to God! [Laughter] Yeah, that’s what happened. I stayed up crying all night. And I said, “Lord have mercy!” God with that, kind of play it like that; he my brother, my brother saved me. My oldest brother. And he say, “You better go town, your favorite movie playing today.” I say, “Yeah? I ain’t got nothing to do but some pecans. I pick my sack of pecans [inaudible 8:39], took them to town, and went to the movies. And when I came back to town, they told me, say, “Your boss—.” Didn’t know I was gonna fly with him. Then I told them. See, the boss man just, his plane [inaudible 8:53] hit a bunch of trees and caught on fire. They didn’t have no emergency things like they have today. They got out there, they was burnt, wasn’t no body nowhere. Just smoke and ashes.

And I didn’t go. I think about. That’s what I serve the Lord. Because He lead me where He want me to go. I’ve been on that a long time. We came from the





movies one time seeing Joe Louis’s last fight, I believe it was. To the movies? And we came—went to the movie and come back, and here’s an overhead bridge. You had some cars didn’t have too many good brakes on them. If you have mechanical brakes, something like that, if it rain or something, if you don’t pump them real hard, the A-model Ford, the T-model Ford. And he hit the bridge, and if it would’ve went down, we’d’ve been killed. Guy was driving hit the bridge, and he hung right there till somebody help him get out. All of them got hurt but me. Yeah, we was in [inaudible 9:59] they had them cars, you sit back in the back and—

	QM:	A convertible?



	AM:	Yeah, mmhm. So, we add that and some. Everything happened to me, God bring me out. He lets me see things before they happen. That’s why I said we should go to town instead of going with them. I say, “I ain’t going with them.” That’s what I said to myself. “I don’t want to go nowhere.” [Inaudible 10:22] plane too much.

And they didn’t have none of that peoples that work on planes at that time. Have any old plane, and he never had any mechanic workeded on it. He do it hisself. But now they still falling. People do mechanical work on it, but it’s still falling.

Some people had their private planes. You don’t know where they at till they get up on up. All right?

	QM:	Yeah. Could you explain your friendship with your brother Jimmy Lee?



	AM:	Jimmy Lee? We were so close together. We did everything together. I married your grandma in Georgia; he married her sister. We go to town together, we bought a car together; peoples thought we was weird. You see him, I ain’t too far;





when you see me, he ain’t too far. He right there with me. Mmhm. And we worked on the car together, and we fixed them. And [inaudible 11:17] had to move. When I married, he married. And then, when I quit, he quit. [Laughter]

	QM:	Oh really?



	AM:	Yeah! You can ask your grandma. He [inaudible 11:28]. QM:	What happened? Like—

	AM:	I was a leader for him. When I married, he got married too. He married her sister.



See how close we were?



	QM:	Yeah.



	AM:	I quit, and he quit. He had a problem because he quit, too, and he didn’t know I was cutting hair. But anyway, the story is just, we had been so close together I thought we was going go to the same town together. But he went north and I went south. He going meet us down here—he been out here one or two times. But all my [inaudible 12:07] my sisters. They were so great. And Dot, she did so great; she was the greatest person that we have in our family. Like a spokesperson, that call you and let you know somebody sick or somebody done died. Yeah, that’s Dot. That’s my girl! [Laughter]

	QM:	So, can you explain the special moments that you had with your sister Dot?



	AM:	Oh, Dot ironed my clothes. Nobody ever knew it. She ironed my clothes. She was so sweet to me. She say, “Bro, I know you going to town again; let me iron your clothes.” She was the spokesperson in the family. Yeah, she’s always the head of all the rest of the girls. And it’s all the same to me, but she was the spokesperson that could give you information real quick, and you won’t have to





worry about it’s the wrong information. She’s so sweet, I tell you; I wouldn’t take a million dollars for—. [Laughter] But if I do, I’d steal it and get her back. Spend the money and go out in the woods somewhere and build a mansion. Okay.

QM: So, did she ever did any schooling? Like, she went to school? AM:  Yeah, she graduate high school.

QM:  High school?



	AM:	Mmhm. She went to college somewhere, little bit. She done that education, college-educated, yeah.

QM:  Do you know what she majored in?



	AM:	I did not know at that time, because she didn’t tell me. Did not know at that time.



But I was here. I was up here. I ended up here because she was [inaudible 13:40] on school, I worked here. My first day, I [inaudible 13:42]. I stayed up here in [19]53. By [19]52 or [19]53, I came to Gainesville. My uncle and aunty was in Georgia. We came home for Christmas. I came from Avon Park, Florida, doing work down there. And so when I got home from Christmas, they want me to drive them back here, to Gainesville, from Georgia. They said, “Why don’t you stay here? You don’t need to go nowhere.” I say, “I got my car out here, but no job for me.” My car went on down the road. He say even I get [inaudible 14:15] in Georgia, “you ain’t stopping and picking me up in Georgia.” So I drove them back down here to Florida, and I’ve been here ever since. 1953. Pretty long way to town. I have a place to fish; I love that. [Laughter] I haven’t been able to go because my legs [inaudible 14:31] and everything. Now that [inaudible 14:33] can’t bring them back, I’m going fishing! Maybe this week; I don’t know. I’m





taking a medication, you can’t be out in the sun too long. Yeah. So I just—I’ll take care of myself. God have given me this long life. I’m eighty-five on October the 17th of this month.

	QM:	That’s good!



	AM:	Mmhm. I’m going there, I’m getting up there! [Laughter] I been broke up and I reckon I still—car ran over me. I’m going to take [inaudible 15:03] in on Friday. But the truck come by and say they’s up at the school. And we go, and told we got a [inaudible 15:11]. Well goddangit, that [inaudible 15:14] hit me and drove me up on there. That’s where my leg broke, four ribs. See how it was all fractured on this side? And I was going to come up in two weeks. They didn’t have no IV and all that kind of stuff back in them days. Didn’t have too many doctors. Not too many polices, and they’re all right, see? Because didn’t have any money to pay them with. But what happened, I just got where I couldn’t wake up. And my mother and her two, three sisters in Christ was making all our clothes and everything. They’d make quilts, and they got rollout and pants; they made everything during them days. And they done making them, and they were selling them? They was selling. They say doctor come by and tell me and get it. [Inaudible 16:01] about three more days I’ll be gone. And for about ten-odd days, I come out that corner. And I say, “Y’all say anything now?” He start saying, he say, “I lost somebody.” “I lost somebody too! But I ain’t hurt nobody.” The guy say, “Now, he ask me, I’m going say it to him loud.” Boy! That was a hallelujah; didn’t tell me about his [inaudible 16:22]. “Tell me about the doctors, so when Jesus come for me I won’t be laying on [inaudible 16:24]” that kind of stuff, back





in them days. Yeah, I wasn’t eating; that’s not—[inaudible 16:31]. Still a hole right there in my head, right back in here it be. I think it keep me—well, I think age do it, too. Keep me from skipping some things every time I react. But I still love the Lord. Right from when I met Him, I’ll wait ‘til He call me home.

	QM:	So Jimmy, I don’t know, I was talking with Jimmy Lee. He said that he definitely saved everyone in the family? He said that he brought that up in the family reunion? So, like, how did he say it, though? Like, people, your family and stuff?

	AM:	Yeah, well, he didn’t save me. QM:	Oh, okay. [Laughter]

	AM:	I’m glad you said that; that’s why I got you this morning. I’m not saying [inaudible 17:09]. When he started ministering, I was gone. I wasn’t at it very long. I think it was Tallahassee, Florida, he and his wife moved to Tallahassee and got them two boys he got. And I didn’t know he had [inaudible 17:23]; his wife [inaudible 17:25] I done quit mine, he quit his. [Inaudible 17:28] all day, but he’s just that way. Because I had a mission down here. He got a mission up there in the north, North Carolina. I had a mission in South Florida. And I got me in some good fishing down there! Fat [inaudible 17:39] and crabs and all that kind of stuff? Oh, hallelujah! [Laughter] Say, “You the best that was, and the best that ever will be. You can cook the best crab!” Everybody told me that, you know what I mean?

	QM:	Yeah, because people know you as the Crab Man! Can you tell your story about that? People know you as the Crab Man.

	AM:	Yeah, everybody know me as the Crab Man here. They call me “Crab Man,” without saying my name? “Hey, Crab Man!” [Laughter] I say, “Hey! The best that





was, and the best that ever will be.” They say, “That’s right!” But that’s all right; I like to crab. [Inaudible 18:13] few fish every now and then, but I ain’t been going fishing that much since 2014 when I got my leg hurt. I ain’t been down there. I just washed my car yesterday. I ain’t been able to wash it. But I did some—I didn’t have all the stuff to wash it because I haven’t been washing it. Charles wash it for me every now and then, so, I praise him for that.

	QM:	So, it said—I was looking at doing research—it said James Madison, Jimmy Madison, your dad? His dad’ name is Joe Madison. Did you ever meet his dad before?

	AM:	Nuh-uh. My daddy’ real name Jim Arthur Madison. Being “Jim A.” got him his name. Jim Arthur Madison. [Inaudible 18:57] up in here got it. He got a name; I’m Arthur, he Jimmy.

	QM:	So have you ever met your mother’s side of the family?



	AM:	Yeah, my uncle. My uncle, he’s a—he didn’t live too far from me on the farm. We stayed on the farm together. Yeah, he got four children; they in Jacksonville. Yeah—he have five children, living in Jacksonville. Unless my senior home is coming to the funeral, [inaudible 19:25] Albany, Georgia. [Inaudible 19:27]. They sister died, they have it up there. But I think they live about Jacksonville [inaudible 19:37].

	QM:	Yeah. So, you know a Ephraim Morgan? AM:	Morgan?

	QM:	Yeah, Ephraim, like, Morgan? AM:	Morgan.





	QM:	I think that’s your mother’s dad’s first name. Ephraim? AM:	Mmhm.

	QM:	Did you ever meet him before?



	AM:	I didn’t never—I met him, maybe, so long ago. So long ago I can’t remember. That I see a lot of people that came up in the family, we got a lot of big family. We got a big family over here; the O’Connell Center be half full if everybody come. [Laughter] We got a family! I mean, maybe somebody bring them when I was little. But they done had children, they done had children, they done had children; they had five, they had fifteen. [Laughter] And [inaudible 20:24] got a lot of children. I don’t have [inaudible 20:27], they got children, got lots of children.

And they children got lots of children. At my mother’s funeral? Had it in the biggest church in Moultrie, Georgia.

	QM:	Oh wow! What’s the name of the church?



	AM:	Hopewell Missionary Baptist Church. And they, when they had my mother’ funeral, too much couldn’t get in the church, only about half of them could get in the church. So we come in the church, in the front, and move out the back there. And it be raining that day, too! [Laughter] But we all couldn’t get in the church, at the largest church in Moultrie. That was a long time ago. Had more peoples, I think, since then.

	QM:	Yeah.



	AM:	That like about twenty, thirty years ago—or forty, maybe something like that. [Inaudible 21:11] talking about, I know if I see them. Because I ain’t ever met them before. Because I would say that, being with your grandma, we stopped to





McDonald’s. And somebody, they came over and smiled at me, and smiled at me. I say, “I know she smile at me.” Go, “Hello, baby.” She say, “You my uncle!” [Laughter] I think she so pretty and cute! All my baby cute. She say, “You mom [inaudible 21:40].” I go—she never did say nothing! But [21:44] after I been out here in Gainesville so long. I did not know who she is. But she looked like somebody, like anybody cute in our family. Which, I didn’t know her. She kept smiling at me and smiling at me; she wouldn’t never say nothing! [Inaudible 21:59] [Laughter] She know me; I didn’t know her! Really didn’t. I say, “I got to get y’all pictures and everything, so I’ll remember y’all when I come up here sometime.” And that’s the way it is.

	QM:	Yeah. What’s your earliest childhood memory that you remember when you were a kid?

	AM:	Earliest childhood memory, let’s see. Let’s see; I cannot remember that far back. It’s hard, now. Hm. Okay. I remember that Jimmy Lee, my brother; my daddy had two liquor stills. I run one, and Jimmy, he run the other one. Jimmy Lee got so drunk—we had a cane, [inaudible 22:49]. Daddy had his name on its leg: Jim Arthur Madison. Right there on its leg. Take the [inaudible 22:54] from the cane, where you skimming the coal; then it run moonshine. Jimmy Lee run moonshine, I run moonshine. Jimmy drunk so much they had to take him to the doctor. Oh, he couldn’t eat nothing! I ain’t drunk that way; I never did drink that much.

Mmhm, I been [inaudible 23:08] I don’t care about making [inaudible 23:10]. Jimmy Lee had [inaudible 23:14]; he ain’t drank no more since then. [Inaudible





23:15]. [Laughter] Yeah, God bring you down, He wants you to do what He wants you to do. You don’t? So be it. Mmhm.

	QM:	What were your favorite songs and music? What were your favorite music that you liked?

	AM:	I liked spiritual music. But I liked the regular music, huh? Well, we didn’t—they didn’t let us have no spirit music on the radio until late Saturday night, till that Sunday morning. [Inaudible 23:45] They say, it sometime up and sometime down. But we say that on Saturday night, when we come from the store. [Inaudible 23:59] to the store on Saturday afternoon, come back, and that’s what we listen then till Sunday morning. Sunday morning, they take it off. Nashville, Tennessee at that time had—I would rather hear that music. I liked that spiritual music. And when James Brown [inaudible 24:14], I likeded that music. [Inaudible 24:18] say I’m James Brown’ half-brother. [Laughter] Said I’m James Brown’ half- brother. My sister say that. But I don’t know, I can’t do that. I don’t know. But I come in, everybody call me James Brown. I used to sing [inaudible 24:33], when we had a band there. I used to sing. I used to sing James Brown.

	QM:	Really?



	AM:	I used to have them clothes just like him, everything. And I sung at the fraternity house on Fraternity Row. The Jewish fraternity house. And boy, they jumping and crazy about me when I started singing! Say, “Y’all, don’t take my [inaudible 24:51] on the thing.”

	QM:	[Laughter]





	AM:	And she kind of, she said, “He come to enjoy it. he come to enjoy it, I come to enjoy.” That’s him I was [inaudible 24:59]. He come to Georgia. He still a bald guy, and she back with him. I say, “Do what you got, baby. Or are you fixing to get something started?” And she laughed. And see, I was a bartender then. So then, my bartending, from there going on stage and singing when my time come. Used to call me “Little Arthur.” “Time for the Little Arthur Show.” I jump on out, [inaudible 25:17] Turn it on like James Brown and everything, yeah. Man, broke my knees now! [Laughter] I done got to wait for God, the rest of my days up.

	QM:	Did you ever learn how to play any instruments?



	AM:	Well, I played the guitar a little bit. I didn’t—I could blow a harp. The main thing, I could blow a harp. I played guitar a little bit, but harp is my main instrument. And so, I can do a little harp. But I could sing. I sung a long time, until—I sang sometimes here by myself? [Laughter] Yeah.

	QM:	Yeah.



	AM:	Feel lonely, you know? But I just stand up and tell God that I’m with Him all the way. I seen where he done brought me from. And one day, it’ll be over. I don’t want to go to Hell; I want to go to Heaven. When I close these eyes, I want to go to Heaven. I’m Heaven-bound, thank you, Jesus. Amen.

	QM:	Any recipes that were passed down from your family to you? From your mother?



Has your mother ever passed down any recipes?



	AM:	Well, I wouldn’t know, really, because Mother did teach me to pick the blackberries so I could make a blackberry doobie. When I could get off work— everybody still be working but me, I helped my mother cook lot of times.





[Inaudible 26:37], you know? My daddy did, too. My mother did, too. I was in that coma, you know; after that coma, everybody give me a little love, you know? [Inaudible 26:47]. I be all right with that. Things happen that way.

	QM:	How has the world—what’s different from when you were a child, and up until now?

	AM:	Well—say that again.



	QM:	Like, in what ways has life changed when you were growing up as a child up until now.

	AM:	Well, I’ll tell you: I haven’t let go of my life, you see. God been good to me. He didn’t get me killed, he didn’t get me nothing, he didn’t tempt me from drinking; I quit drinking, I told Him, I told Fannie—your Grandma. I say, “Fannie, I bought some [inaudible 27:28].” She say, “Well, who did you told before you going quit drinking?” I say, “But I told the Lord this time. I told you before, but I told the Lord this time.” That was in [19]92; I haven’t had a drink since then. Nothing but soda water and this stuff I got here, that water out the little box. So I’m—it been hard on me, I ain’t going to lie. God got me from—He brought me around that [inaudible 27:58], and I’m still here, praise the Lord. He been good to me. I can’t leave the church; I [inaudible 28:06]. Them try to throw me on [inaudible 28:10], but I just got up and [inaudible 28:11]. I said, “I’m coming, Deborah!” [Laughter] Yeah, I fixed [inaudible 28:14] morning like this, ate breakfast. And I eat lunch. [Inaudible 28:19] eating dinner [inaudible 28:20].

	QM:	Have you ever fallen in love before?





	AM:	Well, yeah, I have been in love before. I’ve been in love before with your grandma. She the one in Georgia. But the one—they both were Spanish. Yeah, your grandma that I married [inaudible 28:47] since then; she was Spanish, okay? That, and Georgia was Spanish too. Your grandma [inaudible 28:56], don’t it? [Laughter] But anyway, she made me fall in love; she liked me. She kept—your grandma, helped me raise your grandma up. I had to have her hand, because I brought Jamal down when he was six months old. Brought him on a Greyhound bus. I gave a brother, Jimmy Lee, a call because I was going take him with me. I didn’t think I’d make it there. And so I got on the bus and take it down to Gainesville, in [inaudible 29:24]. Till I find me a hen. And Fannie was that hen. The one down here, not the one in Georgia, now.

	QM:	Oh, so what does it mean, like, “hin”? AM:	I found a mother for your grandma.

	QM:	Oh, okay.



AM:  I call them a “hen.” [Laughter] A hen, a chicken; [inaudible 29:46]. See, I call it a “hen.” Because she [inaudible 29:50].

QM: Yeah. So, any advice for the younger generation in our family? Like me, all the— you know, the women? Or just all the younger people in the family? Do you have any advice for them?

	AM:	Well, me and Jimmy Lee is the closest. All the brothers, me and Jimmy Lee was the closest together. We [inaudible 30:14] going do. And we built a boat one time, went fishing. [Laughter] Build it, and put it in the water, and went fishing. Worked on cars; I worked on that car. Jimmy Lee just, he and I just love one another. I





came down here, he came up there, went over a little bit. He got to be by hisself, I be by myself. To the end, see, we going be together; somebody going die in a while. But the end, it never come yet; but it going come after a while. Just keep on living. But we stay in touch with one another. He call me in Tallahassee. [Laughter] Anyway, saw a lady doing something. He call me and told me. He say, “I’m going to get out here; I’m going to North Carolina.” I said, “All right, bro; you get [inaudible 31:00], didn’t you?” You was seeing if I was still in it, huh? But he got out after I got out. He said, “Okay.” I said, “All right. You follow me. I call the shots.”

	QM:	So, who—other than your brother, who did you felt most close to?



	AM:	My mother. My dad. My dad and my mother, and Dorothy. She didn’t, she wasn’t—she was [inaudible 31:26]. Dot is the baby sister. And Leroy is the baby brother. [Inaudible 31:33] baby brother. And Dot was the baby girl. And she was all right. She ironed my clothes, she fixed me something to eat, I eat it; that was all right. She came over here to family, she was so sweet. She used to do things you would think no person would do like her. She [inaudible 31:56]. “Then I got your mother in Moultrie, Georgia.” [Laughter] I didn’t tell her that. She always trying to do something good. She got a son, he [inaudible 32:08]. He’s a cutie guy.

	QM:	Oh, okay.



	AM:	Mmhm. He’s a cutie-guy. [Inaudible 32:16] tree out there, that sycamore tree. Or, not sycamore tree—let’s see. I can’t remember what it was, I guess, fell on top of the house. He come up from Georgia and get the axe and try and chop on





it. He does like to work. [Inaudible 32:34]. He say, “I’m going chop that tree down, Grandpa!” He call me Grandpa. But I’m his uncle. Mmhm. “I’ll help you, Grandpa.” I said, [inaudible 32:48]. I wanted to show him I ain’t got to worry about [inaudible 32:56] just can’t see the trees on top of the house, and then they go from there. That’s why it was so long. You got some sugar that that hole was small, I’d see if I can come put that plastic strip on top there.

	QM:	Do I remind you of any of your sisters in your family growing up?



	AM:	I remember Catharine, that’s my oldest sister. Catharine was pretty; she was a pretty woman. I just loved her. My oldest sister. She left early. She left early. But she had two—she had some childrens by an old guy in the Army, and he [inaudible 33:36]. But she left early in life. Mmhm. I loved to see her sing. She talked so sweet. And her and Liz’s sister Dani, she—we went to Albany, Georgia, to a funeral. Up above Albany, Georgia. And there was so much of that, my sisters standing right there, they just talking and talking. They small, too. My family kind of small; you got some of them large, and some of them ain’t. Mmhm. [Inaudible 34:06] they got some large peoples there. And we just—I always couldn’t count, that wasn’t half of them. Used to have [inaudible 34:16]. Maybe not having a job, I don’t know about that, you know? But that’s a lot of peoples that we got in our family. I hope we can meet again one day before I go on. But don’t—I say, I’ll see you over yonder. [Laughter]

	QM:	So, I remember you telling me that you found, like, I think it was your mother’s dad passed away in the house, I think? So, what happened with that?





	AM:	Well, my mother, she hadn’t gotten with my dad yet. My mother was only about thirty-five, forty years [inaudible 34:56] from my daddy. My daddy, because he the didn’t get the ones that the mule went; them maggots be in it, it quit working. Get so, and Daddy’d tie his leg up with a rope. You know, put some of that stuff [inaudible 35:10], called benzene. And that mule jumped up and kicked him in the heart. And he was sick ever since. It’s called, they said he had his heart dropped. That’s what the doctor said. Doctors didn’t know too much back then, because they didn’t have too much medication and stuff. They had, doctors, they had been in school just long enough to know. But he was on the fence when I came away. My momma said, “Your daddy out there, his legs swelled; he won’t let nobody take him to the doctor but you.” I took him to the doctor, and the doctor called me in and say, “Your daddy want me to tell you something: your daddy got heart dropped. He won’t be in long. He be going real soon. And he don’t want you to tell nobody; it’s all he wants you to know.” I didn’t tell nobody till after the funeral.

	QW:	Wow.



	AW:	Yeah, because he didn’t know—he didn’t want the doctors to tell me. He tell them heart kicked in; he didn’t want nobody but me. So, that’s why I came in to the doctor every day. I was working on the farm, and then I come to the hospital, he sitting over there. Got a bench on the side of the fence, at the house. And Momma say, “He don’t want no one to take him to the doctor but you, so you take him on to the doctor.” How he’d been through pain, I took him over to the doctor. I knew—I actually knew something, I always knew it. I was his number





one son. He carried me everywhere he go. Everywhere he go. Yeah. He didn’t trust nobody there but me. [Laughter] But that was all right. I got close to my dad. I loved him, too. And he loveded me. Yeah. When he go for a ride, he take me with him. Nobody else but me. Jimmy Lee say, “[Inaudible 36:51] with you. Ought to carry me with him sometime!” He used to do that, I guess; he got more [inaudible 36:58] than me, other peoples. But he let me do that for him. Because he know I’m going do the right thing. I’m even telling the truth, but he done told me about that; I couldn’t tell him nothing. I ain’t tell him nothing. Mm-mm, mm-

mm. That he not going be here long. Yeah. Mmhm.



	QM:	So, after your dad passed, like, how did your mom take it? Like—



	AM:	Well, we was taking care of her. Doing everything we could to take care of her.



But she, my momma married again.



	QM:	Oh, really?



	AM:	Yeah, she married again! QM:	To who?

	AM:	My baby brother, he and I don’t have the same daddy. QM:	Oh!

	AM:	See how tall he is? [Laughter] QM:	Yeah.

	AM:	We don’t have the same daddy. And my sister—she dead now, Eveline—they had the same daddy. My baby brother and Eveline, my sister; she next to Tommy Lee, that’s my oldest brother. Eveline is, but she died. Yeah, she been





dead long time. She died, ooh, way back down the road. It had two funerals; had a double funeral. Two peoples in the family died at the same time.

	QM:	What?



	AM:	Yeah. Funeral on Friday, and one on Saturday. Doubleheader. Why pay for the church before I go home, that I would go in Georgia? I said, “Lord, isn’t [inaudible 38:20].” Two of my kinfolks died on the same day. It was a doubleheader. We going have double funerals. I thought it would play on, and go on and on, but it stopped. We all got to leave that one day. Stay in wherever.

When the road is [inaudible 38:41], we just got to do the best we can. But anyway, they died on Friday and one on Saturday. That was a dark day in my life. And the pall man, when Leroy’s wife died, the same time my sister died. Yeah. Had to bury Leroy’ wife, too. Same time, yeah. That’s Leroy, my baby brother.

	QM:	So, what was the name of the person that she remarried to after your father passed away? What was the name of the second husband that she married to?

	AM:	Aaron. Aaron Young. His name Aaron Young. Mmhm. That’s who she married after my father died. I didn’t know him. Because I was down here. I didn’t know him. She tell me, my baby sister tell me about it. And she told me, said, “Leroy [inaudible 39:37] son.” And my niece and my brother, Eveline, was his daughter, too. You see, I got to pay attention; a lot of what was going on, I didn’t pay no attention. I said to people—you know, young boy, you don’t pay attention to a lot of things I guess that you ought to know, and that’s why they told me later. But I didn’t—and I seen he looked just like him. Eveline did. I remember. [Inaudible





40:07] get there. I didn’t know it happened, but it did happen. She’d [inaudible 40:11]. She met my daddy, my mother. She got one next to Tommy Lee, my brother. She got one—she the next to my brother. And Ev from Aaron, too. And Leroy from Aaron, too. He the last baby she had. And he was in there up there in the chair by the fire—we had a fireplace, what you call a fireplace—and he fell out the chair in the fireplace. She say, “I’d like to go up and get some water.” He was in there, he was burned up, and she headed up there and got him. They said his hand ain’t got nothing on it. Nothing, got no hand, nothing like that. On this one, got nothing on it. That why [inaudible 40:51]. But anyway, he was—she [inaudible 40:56] my mother. And my daddy come out the field, and go on to take him on to town, to the doctor. And see when they bandage him up and hang him up, and all that kind of stuff. That’s how he lived, that’s the way it is.

	QM:	Anything that you would want to change, if you had to, in your past? Like, are there any things you wish you could’ve took back, or any promises that you made to someone, or—?

	AM:	Well, I just let it go on away. You know, I pray to God. That’s all I know. That I get peoples down through the years that, whatever I did, wasn’t that much; they did, it was a whole lot. But I still, even them—because you can’t live with God and hating somebody. And always thinking about what they did to you. You got to leave that down here. Because you can’t take that to Heaven with you. Only your soul can go to Heaven. And it’s like a peanut: when you open it, you eat it, you leave the shell. And the body give out your heart like you turn a peanut, to go to Heaven. That’s your body down here. But you rise up into Gabriel’s trumpet.





Everybody get up and go there. They don’t get up, they went to Hell. Yeah. That’s the way it is, all life is all about. That’s why I’m trying to put my time in. Like I’m the age I am. I put my time in soon. I don’t get nothing for time; I’m Heaven-bound. I won’t let nothing take it away from me. Because I know I got a God that cares about me. He showed it all down through the years when I was young. Look where He brought me from, and where He brought me to. And Lord, I’m Heaven-bound.

	QM:	Well, thank you for talking with me.



	AM:	Well, I hope it did some good, now. Mmhm. QM:	Yeah!

[End of transcript]









Transcribed by:

?



Audit-edited by:



Ryan Morini, May 5, 2020

Final-Edited by:



Sandra Romero, May 19, 2020