AAHP 678; Brown; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 657 Robert Brown Jr. 5-13-2019 Interviewed by Sebastiano Cocco on May 13, 2019

81 minutes | 42 pages



Abstract: In this interview, activist Robert Brown Jr. recalls his involvement in the Civil Rights Movement in Tallahassee. He remembers the Tallahassee Bus Boycott and the efforts of the late Laura Dixie towards ending segregation in Tallahassee, Florida.

Brown credits the success of the Civil Rights Movement, both in Tallahassee and in general, to the organizing efforts of church leadership and congregations. Particularly, he mentions the importance of Bethel Baptist Church and its members in organizing Tallahassee’s Black community against segregation. Brown concludes with his hopes for future generations of African Americans and young people in general, encouraging them to develop a relationship with God and the church.





Keywords: [Tallahassee Bus Boycott, Florida, Black community, activist, civil rights, segregation, integration, Million Man March, protest]



AAHP 657

Interviewee: Robert Brown, Jr.

Interviewer: Roberto Muñoz-Pando, Sebastiano Cocco Date: May 13, 2019

	S:	Hello, my name is Roberto Muñoz-Pando with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, I am here with—

	C:	Sebastiano Cocco.



	S:	And we’re gonna be in Tallahassee Florida at the college here— C:	TCC [Tallahassee Community College].

	S:	On May 23rd, 2019. We’re here and we’re going to interview— B:	Robert Brown, Jr.

	C:	How would you like to be addressed, Mr. Brown? B:	That’ll be fine. Thank you.

	C:	Okay, you’re welcome. So we’re going to begin with the most basic questions. B:	Go right ahead.

	C:	What is your date of birth?



	B:	I was born, so I was told by my mother, on September the 13th, 1947. S:	Where were you born?

	B:	I was born in Tallahassee, Leon County, Florida. C:	What was it like growing up in Tallahassee?

	B:	Well, growing up in Tallahassee I remember from a very early age, me, when I started the first grade, second or third grade, and then a couple of my buddies that lived in my neighborhood, we would run two to three miles to school every morning. We would get up and that would be our enjoyment, running and laughing and hollering and going to school up these hills. I would say two miles at least.

	C:	Wow.





	B:	And that’s when I first started jogging and running. I’m doing it right now at the age of seventy-one, that’s still something that’s in my blood to do that. I been running since I was—like I said—in about the second grade because me and my boy Dallas lived in that street that was over right there, we would run to school. And sometimes coming home from school you had to fight. There would be fistfights and things of that sort?

	S:	Who would you fight?



	B:	Believe it or not, some of the guys I used to fight, we found out later in life that we were relatives. They were my relatives, but we would fight. Coming home from school, you gon’ always have to get in a fight some kind of way.

	S:	What started the fist fights usually?



	B:	They had this thing called jankin’. They would talk about your loved ones, your mother, somebody like that. And then somebody get a little anger because you was better than them or you did something better than them. The next thing you know, it’s a fight. And another thing I used to do, we used to call it tapping up.

Man, let’s tap up. Let’s box. You had to know your boxing. Nowadays it’s nine- millimeter, but back when I was a kid growing up, you had to fight. So sometimes you’d get your butt whooped, but then when you beat somebody, you feel good then. You need to beat you somebody. Somebody gon’ beat you but sooner or later you gon’ run across somebody you can beat and you feel good about that. But you had to box, that’s one thing that we did. We did a lot of boxing and did a lot of running and things of that sort.

	S:	Who was your favorite boxer growing up?





	B:	Well, I wasn’t really into it like that per say. I was just trying to establish something to eat, some blackberries or some plums or pecans, whatever was in season. Because during those days there wasn’t no snacks or nothing like that, you had to forage where you know the blackberries were growing, where somebody had a pear tree or somebody had some sugar cane. And sugarcane was hard. You put it in your teeth and you crack down on it, if you couldn’t crack it the first time then you dump it on the ground and you crack it, it goes pop. And you tore that sugarcane up.

	S:	I’m Spanish so I know, really sweet.



	B:	Those are some of my early days and then we started playing peewee football. S:	nice.

	B:	And coach lined all us up one day. They first started playing peewee football in Tallahassee about 1958, somewhere around in that time. And coach lined all us up and who all want to draft for the football team. And I outran everybody, and I know that I was training by running o school with my friend, up and down them hills, because there were a lot of hills in Tallahassee. We had to go up a lot of hills. I ride by there sometimes now and look at them hills we used to run up and down.

	S:	The thing is that when you’re in shape, you don’t notice the hills. B:	No.

	S:	But now you’re like, “Wow, I was in shape back then.”



	B:	Exactly. So I had a real good childhood growing up. I did, and it was preparing me—a guy asked me the other day, he said, “Who are you?” I said, “Who am I?





I’m Robert Brown Junior.” He said, “Well, I’m gonna look at it another way.” He said, “you are a product of your life experiences and a product of people you’ve met along the way.”

	S:	That is true. I have a question, what were your parents’ names?



	B:	My natural father was named Robert Brown Senior, my natural father. However, my mother was named Laurine, L-A-U-R-I-N-E. Henderson, H-E-N-D-E-R-S-O-N. Hobbs, H-O-B-B-S. Now, what happened there was the fact that she was married to my father, who was very abusive to her when they got married. But nine months old, my stepfather raised me, his name was Ira Hobbs.

	S:	What was his name?



	B:	I-R-A, Ira Hobbs, H-O-B-B-S. I called him daddy because he was my daddy. He whooped my butt, he took me to church—that was one of the best things he ever could have done, took me to church. But he was a preacher.

	S:	Is he related to Reverend Hobbs that was in the church where we were yesterday?

	B:	Reverend Homes.



	S:	Homes, oh no sorry, I thought it was Hobbs.



	B:	Dr. Homes. But his daddy founded a church here in Tallahassee called Griffin



Chapel. And the Hobbs, they’re a prominent family here in Tallahassee.



	C:	So did Reverend Hobbs die, who founded the church in Tallahassee?



	B:	Griffin Chapel, his name was J.H. Hobbs. He was a preaching man; he preached over there and have to take a handkerchief and put it in his mouth to settle him down. I’m serious, man. He was a preaching man but I was a little boy. My feet





didn’t hardly touch the floor. [Laughter] But I had me a church and that’s the best thing they could’ve done for me.

	S:	That’s very nice.



	B:	God has been good to me.



	S:	You talked about a coach in football but do you remember his name? B:	His name was Charles Wanza.

	S:	How do you spell the last name?



	B:	W-A-N-Z-A. Wanza. Coach Wanza, he was my coach. S:	Did he teach you a lot about life and about football?

	B:	Well, about football more or less. And I was the running back because I was so fast. I used to love to hear that air whistling through my earholes in my head. I’m burning it up now, I hear that, you ain’t gon’ catch me because I’m on my tippy- toes and I’m going. I was real fast.

	S:	I could see that. And you ran every day to school and back so you had all the training

	B:	Exactly, I didn’t realize it but it was preparing me for my life. Because there were some things that happened to me in my life I knew if I had not had that early training and running, exercising I’ll tell you right now that diseases and stuff like that, exercise will take care of your body and stuff like that. I think I’ve heard that exercise was a deterrent for some diseases.

	S:	Many of them. Yes, heart disease, high blood pressure, everything with exercise gets better.

	B:	Exactly.





	S:	So before the Tallahassee Bus Boycott, what was your life like?



	B:	Well, just like any kid. Just basically going to church, my parents were very strict, religious people. And they took me to church and I’m glad they did because that saved my life.

	S:	Did they belong to a specific denomination? B:	Yeah, Primitive Baptist.

	S:	Primitive?



	B:	Yes, my grandfather, Reverend James Henry Hobbs, founded Griffin Chapel Primitive Baptist Church in 1947, and that was the year I was born. And he founded that church and I was a member there up until ten years ago when I joined Bethel Baptist, where I was last night. I haven’t been there long, just about two years. But I’m enjoying it. But before that just doing what typical kids would do during the summertime. Running around, drinking coffee, mom and daddy going to work, you drinking coffee and want to be grown—drinking coffee, you want to be grown now. I couldn’t hardly wait to smoke a cigarette, couldn’t hardly wait to drink a beer, stuff like that. And just fighting and generally just kicking around the neighborhood.

	S:	Okay, what was your experience with segregation, if any? Do you remember?



	B:	Not entirely, but after I think about it now there were quite a few Confederate flags—I thought they were pretty flags—in Tallahassee during those times. And also, the Ku Klux Klan would burn crosses not very far—I could look out my back door and see those big, huge flames of fire jumping up in the air. And I mean, it would burn all the night. And the next morning, me and my friends are going to





school, it would be smoldering, it had burning all night. But they would be wrapped up in sheets and stuff, burn a cross, and I had a decent view of some of it. They burned it, but we didn’t know noth9ing about that. We didn’t know what the hell was going on.

	S:	You mean the other side, watching, didn’t know what it mean?



	B:	Unh-uh. Wasn’t even a thought, it never occurred to me. Anything about segregation, none of that.

	S:	Did you experience any discrimination at some point that you feel discriminated against you at some point in your teenage years or earlier than that?

	B:	Well, when I think back on my life, I used to work for three dollars and fifty cent a day, all day long. I always been a good worker and there was this man named Dr. Angerbran, and during those times if you worked with somebody like Dr.

Angerbran, a prominent person, Caucasian person in the community and whatnot—

	S:	What’s his name again?



	B:	Dr. Angerbran, that’s all I can remember. He owned the Tallahassee pharmacy. S:	Okay, pharmacist. So you worked for him

	B:	I worked for him in the yard and like that, and when I get done on Saturday morning, he would give me, at the end of the counter—I didn’t sit at the counter, I stand on the end of the counter down there and drink me a cold glass of milk, it was ice cold too, and maybe some kind of danish or something like that. It didn’t dawn on me that I couldn’t sit at the counter, I stood at the end of the counter.

And they gave it to me. But I went to work. I always been a hard-working person.







S:

You entered at seven A.M and had the milk and danish, what time did you finish



your day?

B:

Oh, about four thirty?

S:

P.M?

B:

Yeah.

S:

Wow.

B:

I’d be out there all day.

S:

And you made three fifty cents?

B:

Three dollars and fifty cents a day.

S:

A day? Wow. That’s a full shift for a danish a glass of milk and three fifty.

B:

I had lunch.

S:

Lunch too?

B:

The maid would fix me a little sandwich.

S:

With ham and cheese or?

B:

Yeah, like that, a little sandwich.

S:

Speaking about food, what is your favorite type of food?

B:

Today?

S:

Today.

B:

I would have to say vegetables.

S:

Vegetables? Nice.

B:

I don’t eat a lot of steak. I eat a lot of fish.

S:

What type of fish do you like?





	B:	Just basically brim, I like brim fish and occasionally my girlfriend will fry some mullet or something.

	S:	Okay. That’s—



	B:	You know and then again, there was a lot of hog sitting and puck shot, and I ate some greens sometimes, and least the vegetables. And then I got to the point where I’d throw me a pizza in the oven every once in a while, too. But I try to watch my weight, you are what you eat. I’m very conscious of that. So being athletically-inclined and have been, like I said, since I was a kid, I watch what I eat.

	S:	That’s every good at any stage of life. When you were younger, what did you prefer eating?

	B:	I would say stuff like grits and eggs, every once in a while my grandmama make some blackberry doobie.

	S:	What’s blackberry doobie? Can you describe it? I’ve never heard of it. B:	Blackberries—

	S:	I know what the blackberry term but what’s the doobie?



	B:	The doobie is when they put a little dumpling in there, which is a ball of flour and put it in there and stir it up like that and it’s a good eat.

	S:	It’s sweet probably?



	B:	Yeah, it’s good. That, blackberry doobie, and during the summertime my mother would can stuff for the winter. She would put stuff in jars, people don’t do that hardly anymore. Can stuff, like figs, peaches, she would peel the peach and the





peach core would have a little meat in it, and I just eat the hulls and drink some water and go play. [Laughter]

	S:	That was where you got your energy from? B:	Yeah. [Laughter]

	S:	That’s awesome, okay, going back, when you were growing up, what kind of lessons did you draw from the Bus Boycott and your experience with that event, that historical even that you were a witness to and a part of, actually?

	B:	Well, in the early 1960s, [19]60, [19]61, [19]62, there was a consciousness level that was raised in the neighborhood, in our community in Tallahassee about wanting to sleep where we wanted to sleep, eat where we wanted to eat, and this kind of thing. Because I remember so there was a couple places up town like McCrory’s five and dime store where they—some people, we had a little section where we sit, all the African Americans, in the back on the side over there, and then other people would sit in different areas. And that was my first experience with that. And people started the Tallahassee boycott, for instance, kicked in during that time and I was just riding the wave, so to speak. Not really being conscious of what’s going on and not really realizing that I was getting deeper and deeper involved in it myself. Because I realized that what they were doing was they wanted people to be treated fairly, and that struck a nerve with me because I always have believed in freedom. Justice and equality for everybody. This is the United States of America and it’s for everybody. So that being in my DNA, once my mother and them cut the strings on me a little bit, then I started to get involved in the civil rights movement.





	S:	Okay, what is your favorite story that you would like to share about the actual boycott days? Which, if you want to share a particular story of something that happened, it can be a positive or a negative experience, whatever you want to share.

	B:	Well, it could’ve been at a march that I went to— S:	Yes.

	B:	I can expand on that?



	S:	Whatever you want, we have all day.



	B:	Okay, well it had to have been the [19]80s, back in the [19]80s there was a preacher named Jose Williams from Atlanta, Georgia, he had went to Forsyth County Georgia, Cummings, Georgia, and he and a handful of people were protesting something, I can’t remember now exactly what it was. But a lot of people talk about C.K. Steele in Tallahassee, and no doubt about it he was a giant. It’s well-documented that Dr. King used to come down here at Bethel Church where we were last night, with me, C.K. Steele with me, with Dr. King in that church. That was well-documented. But in the same breath, there was also another man that took C.K. Steele’s place. And he don’t get the notoriety that he deserves. And that man was RN Gooden, he had one of the biggest churches in Tallahassee.

	C:	G-



S:  O-O-D-E-N. G-O-O-D-E-N, R.N. for Riley Noble. He came here to Tallahassee from Milton, Florida, over near Pensacola. And he was a fireball. I rode with him on several marches on those trailway buses and stuff.





	S:	And this was in what year?



	B:	It was in the [19]80s, so it was after the bus boycott— S:	It’s fine.

	B:	Then, I didn’t really feel the gravity of it.



	S:	You were a part of it but you didn’t realize what was going on? B:	No, not really.

	S:	So but in the [19]80s you were more active.



	B:	Absolutely. I had a little mustache then. [Laughter] So I got a feel of what was going on and I just gravitated to water. It was just something that I wanted to do, wanted to be involved in.

	S:	And was your involvement mostly in the Tallahassee area or did you go to other places?

	B:	I was gonna say that we went to Cummings, Georgia. Reverend Jose Williams from Atlanta, Georgia, he took some people down to Cummings, Georgia, one Saturday and they were literally ran out of town. Reverend Jose said we were literally run out of town. Word got around, so then we said we going to Fort Cummings Georgia, en masse. And people came from everywhere and we marched in Forsyth county, Georgia. That was the only place I was seeing where people didn’t have dentures or teeth or anything like that. I never seen people so impoverished in all my life as in Forsyth County, Georgia. I had never seen people like that because our people had suits on, doing other things. White folks wore suits. They were not there with no southern stuff like that, not in Tallahassee, that was by people like me getting out there trying to make a





difference for my family and stuff. But Forsyth County, Georgia, I started seeing people with teeth broke off in their mouth and all that. I had never seen anything like that before in my life. And they were afraid there was gonna be a lot of violence. I’m gonna tell you something, you put your life on the line, because you don’t know what’s waiting for you up over that hill and around that curve. There were times when we were going—you know there was a lot of prayer. This wasn’t just jump up and do it. We were laid with lots of prayer, see, people don’t understand that. That was in the background. Before we marched and demonstrated, we had a lot of prayer. We prayed. We would pray hard, strong, and long that God would protect us. And going to Forsyth County, Georgia, we heard that the Ku Klux Klan had broke in an artillery—went on an Army base somewhere and had gotten a lot of artillery stuff. Bombs and stuff like that. We got that information on the way to Forsyth County, Georgia, they announced it to us on the bus. And they told us, if you see any artillery—well first of all, before we left, Reverend Gooden said, “We’re journeying into the mouth of hell.” Y’all be prepared. And so you weren’t able to fight back and strike back. If you got hit by a ball, you tried to duck and get out the way. Somebody threw a brick at you or something, you tried to duck and get out the way. They spit at you, stuff like that, because it was knowing about—

	S:	Excuse me, if you were attacked, you could not attack back. You could just—



B:  I never was attacked. I probably would have knocked the hell out of somebody if I had’ve been attacked, but I never was attacked. But I was there. And in fact most of the guys, people don’t realize, you have some strong brothers out there.





Completely different than we have today, because people today, they just shooting and going to prison and killing up one another. It wasn’t like that during those days. Somebody had to—a strong brother.

	S:	But it was nonviolent resistance that you were practicing? B:	Right, but I never did—

	S:	So you had to avoid the contact, right? They were throwing—



	B:	That’s what they would like for you to do. But I never did get in any situation like that. No, not me personally. We were told that, you know, a situation would happen. Bricks would be throw at you. Sticks and bottles would be throw at you. And you would just keep on marching and don’t start jump right there or go to fist fighting or shooting, don’t do that. So they told us that the Ku Klux Klan had broke into an artillery factory or something somewhere in the Carolinas as we headed towards Atlanta, Georgia, Cumming, Georgia. My mother did not want me to go, but my oldest son lived in Georgia. And I had to go, because I wanted things to be better for him and I was gonna put my life on the line so that hopefully things will be better for him. And a lot of people died in the struggle, a lot of people died in the struggle. It wasn’t no easy thing. A lot of people died, and what Reverend Holmes was preaching about last night, “Strength in the struggle.” Because we relied totally on prayer to protect and keep us. Prayer was a benchmark; it was there for us. And we exercised that and we believed that God would protect us. But anyway, they told us on the bus, “We send smoke out, they’re coming your way or near you.” They said, “Don’t use your hands, or your upper body to try to knock it out the way.” They say if you could, use your feet.





Because you could survive a blown off foot or something. That’s what they told us on the wall. They said, “If you see that thing smoking around and stuff right there, don’t use your upper body. Your hands, all that. Use your feet so you can survive a blow to your feet or your legs or something like that.” That’s what they told us. I wasn’t nervous at all. Then when you got there to Cummings, Georgia, you look around, and you see all those people that had come from all across the country. In support of the marching that you’re doing. And there were not only the Black folks, there was White folks. There were people from every group was there in the Civil Rights Movement, they was there. And they were expecting a big blow-out in Cummings, Georgia, but we got there—the whole route was lined up with Georgia state troopers as far as you could see. It was a pretty place, snow up on the peak of the mountain. It was a pretty place, Cummings, Georgia. It was a beautiful place. And my mother didn’t want me to go for fear of violence and stuff like that but I went ahead anyway. And we were well-protected. They thought because they had run Jose Williams from down there, oh we could do more. So we said, “Wait a minute, we ain’t no scaredy cats now, y’all ain’t gon’ run us nowhere.” So everybody crossed to Cummings—quite a few people went to Cummings, Georgia, Forsyth County, Georgia. Whenever you were in a march like that—and I’ve been to many, Washington D.C.—but that’s one of the most memorable ones that I had, when I went to Cummings, Georgia,. And it was quite an experience to be there and to see all of those people in support of you. And usually protestors were in the minority, but I marched many times here in Tallahassee for different reasons, Washington, D.C., many times for different





reasons. And there was just something that was in Cummings for me to do. And I enjoyed doing it. And I thank you all for this interview because it gives me an opportunity to expound on my experience, not from something I read or not from a story somebody told me, but what I witnessed. I was right there in it. Right in the middle of it.

	S:	Well, I tell you, we thank you for doing this interview and we still have some questions if that’s all right.

	B:	Sure, go ahead.



	S:	Did you know Reverend C.K Steele?



	B:	Not personally but he was well-known in Tallahassee. My grandmother really admired him.

	S:	Okay, why do you think she admired him so much?



	B:	I don’t know, I remember once we saw him on television. I used to live with my grandmother. And she said, admired him, “Look at Reverend Steele got sideburns.” He had grown some sideburns. So she really admired him and what they were doing. Of course now, let the truth be known, there were a lot of people in opposition. Some time you found yourself standing alone on an island, with little support. There were a lot of people at Bethel Baptist Church that didn’t particularly go along with the things that Reverend Still was trying to do.

	S:	In his own church?



	B:	In his own church. A lot of people, that was one of the more prominent congregations in Tallahassee. We had brain surgeons and doctors and lawyers and all this kind of thing. And not only that, there were a lot of people that didn’t





participate in the Civil Rights Movement—a lot of people. It wasn’t no whole gang of people, not from Tallahassee, not even across the state of Florida, not even across the United States because people were afraid, they were afraid that they would lose their life and they were afraid that they’d lose their job and everything. So a lot of people were scared. Everybody wasn’t in it, not like you see everybody today talk about “Ra, ra, ra, ra.” That was a lie. Everybody wasn’t in it. You had to be a certain kind of person, a fearless person. I’m serious. You had to.

	S:	I’m laughing but I know it’s true.



	B:	It’s a fact, I saw it with my own eyes. A lot of people weren’t in there. No.



	C:	That’s sad, earlier I had an interview where—I believe it was Dr. Simmons, it was early [19]60s in Spelman, and they weren’t allowed to be part of SNCC [Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee]. And they were told they might even have their scholarships removed, so they had to really sneak around and—

	B:	Exactly.



	C:	Sit in the back of the room to be part of it.



	B:	You’re exactly right. You couldn’t really blame ‘em, they had a lot to lose. But then there were pastors and preachers who had nothing to lose because they were supported by their congregation. And the Tallahassee Bus Boycott was more or less inspired by preachers and pastors and churches, people that didn’t have anything to lose. And then when they boycotted the busses and stuff like that, then a lot of the people—Mr. Barrington, Mr. Herndon—they started taking people, maids and stuff like that, that needed to go to work. They provided





transportation for them. So that kind of shut the busses down a little bit because the people weren’t riding the bus. Early on any morning, especially during the week, there would be a bunch of women dressed up in maid uniforms standing, waiting on the bus. That was a common sight. You don’t see it anymore now because a lot of people got automobiles and stuff like that. But it was common to see a lot of maids and maybe some yard people waiting on the bus, catch the bus, and go to work. I remember that vividly in my mind because I used to ride around in my Cadillac and women used to try and jump in my car, waiting on the bus. I’m just driving, Cadillac shining, gleaming, they wanna get in there. I say, “No, y’all stay where you at.”

	C:	You mentioned something about your first son. How many sons and daughters do you have?

	B:	I just have three sons and three grandchildren to speak of right now. C:	What are their ages and names?

	B:	I have V-A-S-C-H-O-N, Vaschon Brown. And he’s forty-six years old, he lives in Atlanta, Georgia. Then I have Brandon Brown, and he’s twenty-nine, and he lives in Daytona Beach, Florida. Then I have another son who has gone onto heaven, but I claim him as well because my wife carried him for nine months and he actually lived twelve days. So that’s my son, his name was Robert Brown III.

	C:	I’m very sorry for your loss, it’s very sad.



	B:	Thank you very much because even now it’s a tender spot. It really is. C:	I bet.





	B:	And then in the doctor’s I have pictures of him when he was all hooked up to these devices. But what happened was the part of the heart that takes oxygen to the body was—but my wife tells me now that they could’ve done something about it today, but then, they couldn’t. That’s a sore point with me because I made a video, I can’t stand to watch it right even today.

	S:	I’m very sorry for your loss.



	B:	Thank you very much. But you know, I have two other sons who are living, kicking.

	S:	And you have three grandsons now?



	B:	I have two grandsons and a granddaughter. My granddaughter is my heart. S:	What’s her name?

	B:	Jasmine Brown. Jasmine is fourteen and she’s my heart. S:	What about your grandsons?

	B:	Justin is twenty-four and then Damien is twenty-four as well, because my oldest son, he had two babies at one time. This girl was pregnant, that girl was pregnant, one of those things. He was at Georgia Southern playing basketball. On scholarship, my oldest son.

	S:	He’s the forty-six-year-old, right? B:	Yeah.

	S:	Cool. What lessons do you hope that we learn as a generation or a future generation from the bus boycott, today? From the Civil Rights Movement that you were a part of.





	B:	I guess the basic thing that I would like to leave this world to know is simple: love.



We should love everybody. We should love everybody, love closer, [inaudible 35:01]. When I say love, I don’t mean nothing physical but I mean just—

	S:	Spiritual.



	B:	Yes, yes. That’s what I’m talking about. It boils right down to Scriptures, that’s what I base everything on, my love for the Lord. I would like to see people love. There’s so much hatred. Even today, it’s more hatred out here was than probably was fifty years ago. People try to get along, especially in my neighborhood and stuff like that, people tried to get along. I know my mother got pregnant, I had five brothers. She tried that thing to round up these babies, I knew it wouldn’t be long before I’d have another brother or sister.

	S:	You have five siblings total?



	B:	Yes I do. And then so I was the oldest.



	S:	So you were the oldest, what were the other names? B:	Hobbs. Yeah, H-O-B-B-S.

	S:	And how old were you than the youngest one?



	B:	Okay, all of them are doing extremely well, all of them are doing real well. Matter of fact, I was with my mother—I will always tell people that I was the black sheep of the family, my mother told me all about “You not no black sheep,” and I thank God for that. But anyway, Alvin is in Atlanta, Georgia. He had an ice sculpture business; he’s doing extremely well with that.

	S:	Ice sculpturing? Nice.





	B:	He’s doing extremely well with that. Alvin should be forty-something now, maybe fifty. I don’t know; I’m gonna tell you the truth. But I know he was much, much younger than I am. But those guys are much, much smarter than I am too. One of my brothers finished Harvard University. I don’t know whether he was there with Barack Obama or not. But the Hobbs are gifted, they are quick studies. One is a judge here in Tallahassee now, Barbara Hobbs, she’s a judge. So I realized some time ago and doctors and lawyers—I realized some time ago that Tallahassee was doing nothing to preserve its youth. By me being a native Tallahassian, been here practically all my life, I noticed that the only thing left around here was maids and janitors and people doing yard work, but people that got degrees like my brother now, they had to leave and go to Chicago, find work. They had to leave and go to California, there was nothing here for them employment-wise, and that may or may not be the case today. I’m not really sure but it could be, even today. Because really and truly I see Tallahassee kind of backpedaling a little bit. I’m serious. I see Tallahassee kind of—people aren’t as friendly as they used to be in Tallahassee.

	S:	Well, they were very friendly to us in the hotel yesterday and so I think that—but you have more experience because you’re—

	B:	Absolutely. [inaudible 38:12]. So I’m just saying from my experience, some people will talk to you—Tallahassee used to be a really, “Hey! How are you?” Make no difference, you know, we just all human beings. My mama, she was a maid and she would bring home the locals in jeans and stuff like that, hand-me- downs from the kids she was taking care of. And that’s another thing, those Black





women in them houses, they raised a lot of them kids. They raised those kids and a lot of them benefitted from it because once those kids got up a little bit and started making it for themselves, they remember about Auntie Sue, used to clean my nose, cook food for me. Remember Auntie? Buy her a car, give her a car, something to ride around in. You know that kind of thing. But people were friendly in Tallahassee. There was discrimination but I didn’t know it—I didn’t know what it was. And I’m gonna tell you the truth, to be honest with you, I think that’s one of the worst things that could have happened to us.

	S:	Which—?



	B:	Integration.



	S:	Integration was a bad thing you think?



	B:	I think it was the worst thing that could have happened. S:	Wow. Why do you think that?

	B:	Well, I look at it this way—and you may think that I’m a little naïve for saying this—but I look at birds. Rarely do you see red birds flying with black birds.

	S:	Okay.



	B:	Rarely do you find— “Birds of a feather flock together,” as they say. And I was born at probably Florida A&M University Hospital. So in other words, what I’m saying is that once we got to be able to go here and go there and do this and do that, everyone said, “We had old raggedy books. Our textbooks were raggedy, all kind of nasty writing, names in ‘em and stuff like that.” But still, there were doctors, lawyers, presidential material was even there we had all of that. I wasn’t giving a hoot about going in the back and getting a sandwich, something like that.





It didn’t faze me one bit, growing up. But even now when I look back—and hindsight is 20/20, I’ve heard people say that. This is my opinion, and quite a few people that I talk to say the same thing. Maybe they whisper it, they don’t say it out loud. But you know, you and the same thing. And then we had our athletes. Now the athletes is going to Florida State, University of Miami, these big Whites schools, getting them rich. You know, when at Florida A&M University, they hardly ever lost a football game during segregation. So I see that, but like I said, hindsight is 20/20.

	S:	So what would you have done differently than if you were in control of what would have happened. You would have kept people segregated?

	B:	When I look back at it now, I would have perhaps stayed the course, because sooner or later you’re going to realize that I put my pants on one leg at a time just like you do. I mean, time will just evolve right around to that.

	S:	You think they forced it too much?



	B:	Someone told me, “There is a time for everything.” I was talking with a man one day—a very wise man, I thought. He was a businessman in Tallahassee, Mr.

Ransom. And I said, “Mr. Ransom, if we hadn’t of marched and demonstrated and stuff like that, we wouldn’t have been able to go to Florida State University. And he said, “Well it was just time for that to happen.” And he told me, “Everything is on time. It was time for it. It was time to happen.” No matter, we marched and demonstrated, people died, lost their lives.” It was just still time for that to happen. And I kept thinking about that thing, he’s gone on now, he was an elderly man at that time. But the greater picture of what I’m saying now is that





there is so much hatred in the land instead of love, and I would like to see people try to get along. Even my people, they are not getting along. They said, “We come from different tribes.” We all come over here in them slave ships, and I’m happy my people didn’t jump off the boat or wasn’t thrown off the boat. I’m happy they came over here, that’s the reason I’m here. Everybody, for that matter.

Everybody with dark skin, they could’ve stayed on the ship.



	S:	I see you have some beads that are green and—orange or red?



	B:	Of course, what happened, it’s almost a Christmas ornament so to speak but I know this from watching—people from Africa, Africans, they’re very colorful people, they wear colorful things. Even their garments and things, very colorful and beautiful. And I was gonna tell my granddaughter about that but she’s—one time she was looking a little darker but she’s lightening up now. But I can still tell her about it. But no, there’s a young lady named Iscyria, she and her husband used to do beads and stuff like that. I had ‘em make this for me about twenty years ago.

	S:	Very nice.



	B:	And see this right here? This right here? S:	That’s copper?

	B:	I don’t know what it is but it’ll hurt you.



	S:	I think it has some copper in it, copper wire. It’s beautiful, she made it too?



Another person?





	B:	Iscyria, she made this. But I like African stuff. SO over at Florida A&M University, the vendors were there and I have this now close to twenty years. And I had to take it off one time. See, if you jam this in somebody face, man—

	S:	You can mess ‘em up.



	B:	You won’t have time to do that. You gon’ forget about that, two time, wraps, pop! Pop! Hang that nose up there and [sound effect] just right across the nose there. You almost through dealing, before you even get started. So I wanted to keep it and when I die I’m gonna have them bury me with this on my arm. And I know that in time, it will just deteriorate—

	S:	That lasts a long time because it’s copper. It’s a mineral, so it will stay—it will last longer than our body.

	B:	Is that true?



	S:	Yeah it will, I know so. It will stay longer than you. B:	I’ve been deteriorated and it will still be there.

	S:	It will still be there. So yeah, if archeologists find you one thousand years from now, they’re gonna find that and not you. I know so.

	B:	Is that right?



	S:	It is right.



	B:	Well you know I said that for a joke, I’m serious though, when I die I’m gonna have ‘em keep this on my arm.

	S:	And that’s gonna outlive you—or out—



	B:	When everything else disappear and I’m nothing but bone, this will still be there.



Well, I’m gonna sure do it, I’m gonna tell ‘em to put that on my arm.





	S:	Well that’s even better because it— B:	Yeah, I’m gonna do that.

	S:	It’ll mark where you’re at.



	B:	I didn’t realize, I thought, “Well, by the time my bones and stuff deteriorate, it’ll probably deteriorate too.”

	S:	No, it lasts longer.



	B:	Okay, thank you for telling me that.



	S:	And I also see you have the tags, were you in the military at some point? B:	No, unfortunately I had hypertension.

	S:	You had hypertension so you couldn’t—



	B:	I couldn’t join. I went to Jacksonville; they took me down there a lot of times. About five or six times to make sure, but I have central hypertension and my natural father, he expired at thirty-nine years of age. My natural father, and thirty- nine years of age he was found, but it is my understanding—and I sure believe it—that he was murdered. It wasn’t a natural cause. Robert Brown Senior. It wasn’t natural, not at thirty-nine. And I’m seventy-one, close to seventy-two. So if he had some hereditary, something like that, some cancer other than hypertension—you can control the hypertension.

	S:	Yeah, with pills.



	B:	So if he had some heart disease or cancer or something like that, I would have been gone years ago. But I’m still here and kicking so I know he was probably murdered.

	S:	I’m glad you’re here.





	B:	I can tell, I’m enjoying this. I’m glad I’m being part of history. Y’all hear me out there? Hey y’all out there! Robert Brown Junior, y’all. I’m having a good time.

	S:	Do you think—and if so who are the unsung heroes or little-known heroes or female heroes of the movement that you were a part of?

	B:	Well, the Civil Rights Movement, it got—this chick named Melanie Johnson, she was from Panama City. You know, these are some of the quiet—now that was an organization in Tallahassee I was a part of called the North Florida Rainbow Coalition. And it was headed up by a gentleman by the name off David Mac, North Florida Rainbow Coalition. They were an aggressive group that probably spin off from Stolkey Carmichael. Stolkey Carmichael was a militant individual, and he’s changed his name to something else now. I don’t remember what it was. But he was involved with SNCC and those organizations like that—

	S:	What does SNCC stand for again? B:	Let’s see—

	C:	Student Nonviolent Committee, something.



	B:	Something like that. I’m not really familiar with it. C:	SNCC? That’s S-N-C.

	B:	S-N-C I think it was.



	S:	So Student Nonviolent Committee or something.



	B:	And then the Black Panthers too. They started out food with what they had in mind. They wanted to protect the women in the community, they wanted to provide jobs. They started out good, with good intentions, but the highway to heaven is—





	S:	Not paved with good intentions?



	B:	You heard that before? Yeah, I like to use that. S:	That’s a great quote.

	B:	Exactly, good intentions.



	S:	If you don’t put your intentions to action, there’s nothing.



	B:	Mmhm. And that’s what I like to see now because I think the good Lord, whom I love dearly, is trying to get people’s attention. Don’t you see all the tornadoes touching down in Oklahoma? Tearing up, destroying stuff. Quiet as it’s kept. But some people catching hell right now.

	C:	Yeah, and the fires in California.



	B:	I’m telling you the truth. And a hurricane hit Panama City. S:	And Puerto Rico, where I’m from.

	B:	A fire? In Puerto Rico? S:	Some people died.

	B:	You still got people in Puerto Rico? I know you do. S:	Yeah. My parents are there, my brothers.

	B:	They gon’ be there, they ain’t going nowhere. No matter come hell or high waters.

	S:	Exactly, they want to stay there. Especially my parents. My brother would consider coming here for his family since he has kids, but yeah.

	B:	But I look at it this way, and the Bible says that in the last days there will be perilous times. And I think we’re in that season or time right about long and now.





You know God is doing it because He’s in charge of the wind, the water, and everything.

	S:	He is good.



	B:	And He [Whooshing noise] and blew up Mexico Beach. Mexico Beach was a pretty place. It’s a little—it’s over, not near Panama City but just a little south of Panama City, I guess you could say. That was a pretty place, I spent the night over there many times. It was beautiful.

	S:	How far away from here?



	B:	Mexico Beach? It was beautiful man and it’s a little out of Panama City. S:	So how far drive from here?

	B:	Mexico Beach? Not that far, I’d say Apalachicola is about two hours, Mexico Beach on the other side of Port Saint Joe, I’d say about four hours or something like that.

	S:	Four hours from here? More or less, yeah? We could look it up on the map later. B:	But it was a beautiful place, it was like paradise.

	S:	And it was blown away?



	B:	Hurricane Michael come up in here in October of [20]18. And they figured it was a category five. It just ripped havoc on steel and concrete and everything, didn’t make no difference. But God is trying to get our attention, and He gon’ force you to do stuff. People you might hate, but you got to help ‘em. He gon’ put you in a position where you got to, to need each other. You gon’ help each other. Your house is on fire, you don’t care who it is but come put it out. You know, people helping people who they didn’t really know or didn’t trust and stuff like that. But





now you got to feed ‘em, you understand what I’m saying, and vica versa. So God will put you in a situation where you’ve got to help one another. When you got to love one another, whether you like it or not. You need a pint of blood, don’t care who it comes from. Give me some blood, you don’t care who it comes form. So God gon’ work this thing around and this ain’t no joke up in Oklahoma. You see all them houses floating and going down and stuff like that. They talk about it on the national news. But just know somebody ain’t got nowhere to lay their head. Even in Panama City. And our President has said that they gon’ give a lot of money out. I’ll believe it when I see it. They gon’ be sleeping outdoors, fighting or stealing for some time now. I’m serious. I’m very serious. How you gon’ make your mind up with all these people—if you gon’ do it for them, Panama City, what about those people in Karyl, Georgia. Or what about the people in Oklahoma now? All this stuff being destroyed. See, God is doing this thing and I can see him working in there too. He gon’ make you do what you need to be doing, whether you like it or not. You have to do it. We need each other, and people in my community, I don’t know, they just hellbent on doing the wrong thing.

	S:	So we’re talking about the heroes, they did the right thing, right? So why do you think it is very important to remember them so that we can do the right thing too?

	B:	There were a lot of foot soldiers. I myself would consider myself a foot soldier. Because I would be in my element, mobs would carry me inside. I would be in my element then. Get me in a line and give me a sign! Then I’m gone. It was just something I wanted to do. And you know, I’ve heard it said that the more things seem to change, the more that remain the same. It’s like a dog chasing its tail,





going around and around and around in a circle. But we must go on until victory is won. We must march on; we must go on. We can’t stop. We must continue.

And I’m happy to see a lot of the young people are adopting that philosophy and willing to go on with this sort of thing. But again, I would like to see more love, peace, and harmony on this Earth. Because when you look at it, you don’t be mad with me, you be made with the Creator. You gon’ be mad with somebody, you can’t be mad with me.

	S:	Because he made you.



	B:	I had nothing to do with it. Did you? No matter! We ain’t have nothing to do with [inaudible 55:41] and stuff. We had nothing to do with it, neither did you. So why is we continuing to test and hate? I don’t know. That’s why I was, like I said, I would like to see more love. Even families now all in an uproar, families, blood brothers and stuff. But I’m so happy me and my family not like that. No, we not like that.

	S:	That’s good, I wanted to ask you—



	B:	It’s like I was saying though my brother, there were a lot of unsung foot soldiers, people that were willing to put their life on the line that don’t make the headline that C.K. Steele, R.N. Gooden, and Dr. King, there were a lot of people that played roles that we’ll never know anything about.

	S:	And that’s why you’re here, to tell us about that. So do you remember any other names at all?

	B:	Well, everybody know about Laura Dixie. Mrs. Laura Dixie, everybody know about her. And then Rosell Caswell, she was Reverend Gooden’s secretary and





she kept me informed on a lot of things that was going on. Let me see, I said Melanie Johnson, she was from Panama City, And David Mac, he was another one, he used to head the North Florida Rainbow Coalition, which is an offshoot of the SNCC and this kind of thing. Then there was Reese Jauner and Brenda Jauner, they came from the Carolinas if I remember correctly. Reese Jauner and had a sister named Brenda Jauner, they came from the Carolinas and they were around here stirring up stuff and all in the news. Trying to get people to get excited about moving forward, going forward and not backward. Reese Jauner, I worked with him a couple times on marches and stuff, because sometimes we went in vans, two or three vans caravanning together, going to Washington or something like that. And that was with North Florida Rainbow Coalition. And Reverend Gooden, I would go ride on the trail with busses with him wherever he went. But he was like a C.K Steele, I’m gonna tell you, he doesn’t get the recognition that he deserves.

	S:	He’s African American? He’s being taught in Tallahassee schools? B:	Hm?

	S:	Is Black History taught in schools?



	B:	No, the only thing I remember growing up when I was in school was George Washington never told a lie.

	S:	That was the only lie he told; I think. [Laughter]



	B:	I don’t know about that but I’m pretty sure—I don’t know it for a fact btu I’m pretty sure they’re not reaching that much of that. Because if people knew who we were, if people knew our history—see, we don’t know who in the hell we are for





the most part. You don’t know anything about your great-great-great grandma and all of that. You don’t know nothing about that. We didn’t know our language; we don’t know nothing. We out here on no man’s island for the most part. But this my hope that when I die and transition, my spirit will go back to Africa. That’s my hope.

	S:	I’m sure that’s going to happen because Heaven is what we make of it in our spirit. So I’m pretty sure—

	B:	I hope that’s the case, then I’ll be able to see some of my ancestors who I never met or never known. That’s my hope, I don’t know whether it will happen.

	S:	Okay, what roll do you think Black history should play in public schools and organizations today?

	B:	Well, as far as I’m concerned I think that’s one of the problems we’re having, and that is we have lost our identity. And not only lost our identity, like I said, me and my cousins used to fight. So chances are a lot of people doing this shooting and killing may be related. So I’m saying they’re not putting enough emphasis on those particular studies, nor are they giving kids a fighting chance. Because everybody’s not college material, I’m gonna just be honest with you. Everybody’s not college material, so why don’t you give these kids an opportunity to make a living for themselves? Teach them a skill in high school. You could start it in junior high school. Because all you need to do is learn how to count your money. Once you learn how to count your money, you can get you a trade and go to work and start you a business. Finishing concrete, good money. Nutrition, good money. Carpentry, good money. Auto mechanics, good money. But they’re not





offering any of these things. Why? I don’t know. I think really—I’m looking at ethnic cleansing, too. I think in another forty or fifty years, you ain’t gonna see many people that look like me. That’s my theory, because we’re killing up each other. When you kill, you going to prison. You can’t make no babies in prison, so sooner or later, the numbers are gonna start to shrink up a little bit. Oh, I see that, it’s coming, I see it coming. Pretty soon there won’t be many Black folks running around. There’s not as many as there used to be—well, maybe.

Because everybody got cars and stuff now, there used to be a time when everybody had to walk. Everybody knew everybody. I used to know everybody from Tallahassee. If you from Tallahassee, I knew you, and I could look at you, whether you White or Black, and tell if you from Tallahassee. You see, by your mannerisms, if you nice or friendly and stuff like that.

	S:	How would you like your life history to be shared?



	B:	First of all, I would like people to know that I am a man of God and I have been born again. Now, my mother told me I was born September the 13th, 1947. Then again, I was born again July the 17th, 1959. I was born again when I found the Lord. When I found Jesus.

	S:	1969?



	B:	1959?



	S:	Oh, [19]59, I’m sorry.



	B:	When I found Jesus, I told my mama about it. But when I was born September the 13th, 1947, she told me about it. But when I found Jesus, July the 17th, 1959, I told my mama that. And the Bible tells us this, that you must be born again in





order to make it into Heaven. And that’s my main focus right now, I’m not concerned about whether they teach it in school and stuff like that because that’s totally out of my hands. Nothing I can do about it. And then people have got to the point now where they just haven’t given up, totally given up. We still got some people trying to go forward, but not like it was back in the day. They don’t have that enthusiasm for marching, and I think it’s time now for a new strategy. It’s a new day. That worked fifty years ago, now there need to be some more input.

What, I don’t know. But I did what I could do, I paid my dues, I put my life on the line—you understand what I’m saying. If you shoot me, don’t shoot me but one time. You don’t got to empty the gun on me. But I’m going on to Heaven anyway, and I’m not afraid. No, you couldn’t be afraid in the Civil Rights Movement. No, you could not be afraid. Even today, that sticks with me today. I’m not afraid.

	C:	I remember that from Stolkey Carmichael, he said the only way to live is to live without fear.

	B:	Yeah, and like Reverend Holmes said last night, if you don’t have nothing you would die for, you ain’t got nothing worth living for. So you got to put your life on the line. It was, like he said last night, very true, there was a lot of anxiety. A lot of sleepless nights. What if they burn down your house? Crosses burning on your lawn. But you had to be strong, strength in the struggle. See, when I’m at my weakest point, that’s when I’m at my strongest point. My mama was like that too. My mama was one of those souls. I got some pictures of my mama when she was up in the [19]80s, she’s tough. She’s still hanging, she’s tough. She’s in heaven now. The reason I know it’s heaven is because God showed it to me. I





know it’s Heaven, and my mother, she transitioned June the 2nd, 2013. And the best feeling I ever had in my life, my mother came in my bedroom early one morning. And I knew it was my mother, I felt her spirit all over me. And she wrapped me up with love, put a crown on my head to the sole of my feet. It was my mother, and she’s in Heaven. So that gives me emphasis. And bolsters me up to just keep on trusting in the Lord, because that’s what they did. I’m telling you, they trusted in the Lord. You heard about those people, like I said, every march and strike we ever been in, there was a lot of prayer. There was more to it than just holding a sign and marching, there was a lot of prayer. We prayed and we believed that one day we would overcome. And to an extent, we have.

There’s a man, Robert Smith gave the students of Morehouse—paid for all they loans and stuff. That’s monumental. I don’t think nobody in history ever done that before. I don’t think so. I think he might be the first to do that. Maybe some other people will follow him where they should be. You got more money than you’ll ever need any kind of way, so why not help somebody if you can, just like I do. I got a bunch of little kids from Africa over on Holden Street. They speak very little English.

	S:	They met you? Are you teaching them?



	B:	What happened was this: when I transition, it came with the Lord later on my heart about seven or eight years ago. I want somebody to remember me. Robert Brown. I want somebody to remember me. I remember that man named Robert Brown, he used to come by here and give us fruit—or stuff like that. I got a friend that’s got oranges, big old sweet navel oranges. And then in December, January,





and some of March, I go down to his place. He got about nine different orange trees and grapefruit trees. He was an attorney; he was the first Black athlete at Florida State University. He’s an attorney, Fred Flowers. And I go down to his place and I take him and give them to kids and surprises and things. I come up out of here with blackberries, plums, and pecans and persimmons, we call ‘em ‘simmons. That’s what I eat when I was coming up, but these kids, I don’t know nothing about that. But I said I want someone to remember me so when I go with these prizes, especially [inaudible 1:08:18] since I had those African kids over there. Just got off the boat, they don’t speak much English at all.

	C:	Where are they from? What country in Africa?



	B:	I’m not sure, I’m gon’ ask ‘em though. I’m going over there Saturday and I’m going to ask ‘em.

	S:	They probably identify as Senegalese or wherever they’re from and not African in general.

	B:	I don’t know. They later told me, Curtis Richton who was a local commissioner— city commissioner—his wife, Nina, she’s a judge here in Tallahassee. She told me, she said, “Mr. Brown, you could come from someplace in Africa.” She told me. I said, “Why you say that?” “It’s because your nose.” [Laughter] But I don’t know where they from but God let ‘em in my heart. So when I transition, they will remember me. I see kids all the time, “Hey Mr. Brown,” they grown up a little bit now. I stay out of trouble and do what your parents do you to do. Stay out of trouble, that’s all I can tell ‘em. I had this [inaudible 1:09:20] one day, and they said, “Mr. Brown, you a blood?” I said, “Blood? I ain’t no blood, that’s just my snot





rag, rub my nose on.” [Laughter] You know, they into stuff like that. “What kind of shoes you got on?” I’m serious, that’s the way they think, man.

	S:	So I see that you are trying to sort of mentor these kids— B:	Exactly.

	S:	What type of lessons do you want to impart on the younger people today? Not only them but all who are younger than you, everyone that you meet.

	B:	I would emphasis a spiritual relationship with the Lord. Because the Word tells us this, and a lot of people look at it differently but throughout this interview, my whole thrust has been on the living Savior. We need to seek the King of Heaven and then all these other things be added unto you. Wives, jobs, education, and that sort of thing. And you just love the Lord with all your heart. And it’s a process, because I just recently got to that stage myself. But I can look way back on my life when I was a little bitty boy running up those hills going to school.

Nobody but the Lord has kept me because a lot of my friends, man they been gone a long time. They transitioned; they gone. A lot of the brothers, I’m seventy- one years old, soon to be seventy-two. Man, a lot of guys died in their twenties, thirties, forties, fifties, sixties—all kind of situations. And that’s why my main trust of my life right now is just trying to tell the young people—and I tell my grandchildren—to trust and obey the Lord. And I know it might sound like old- fashioned stuff, but that’s what done brought me this far and that what keep me right now, keeping my mind intact. Keeping my body intact. That’s what keeping me this May the 23rd, 2019, all the way from September the 13th, 1947, this heart beating and beat and beat and beat. And I’m just so happy. The only thing I tell





you young people, get a life. Get a life. Get a life. Get a life because life is fleeting. My hair used to be jet black, look at it now. It’s grey. Everything changes.

	S:	The only constant is change.



	B:	The night changes into the day, the day changes into night. The leaves are green, they turn brown, they hit the ground. Everything changes. I was a baby, child, young man, man, old man. And I’m just so thankful to be here today. And I’m just so happy to be able to share with you all some of the things that I’ve experienced firsthand. I was there firsthand. I didn’t make it to—oh, I went to the Million Man March, too. That was monumental in my life. I knew it had to be more than crack cocaine and drugs out here that people were getting into. So they had the Million Man March in October 1995. And I went over the Florida A&M University—they didn’t wanna let me on the bus with students, but they let me on the bus and I went to Washington D.C. for the Million Man March. And that’s about the last biggest march I participated in.

	S:	What year was this?



	B:	October 1995. Million Man March, they had over a million brothers out there, man. That’s the first time I ever told a man I love him. That’s what God told us to do. He said, “Look your neighbor in the eye, tell ‘em you love ‘em.” But I got right at Tallahassee, man I was telling people—I said, “Man I told a man I loved him.” I was freaked out, man, but that’s what he said do. It was a tone that—and it was a wonderful event. And that’s the last major march I participated in, and it was well worth it. I was there in just the spirit, the comradery through the crowd.





It was well over a million Black men there, well over a million. And you see nobody with no red eye, everybody got bright eyed and bushy tails, a lot of professional people were there. Because I knew it had to be something larger than what I was seeing when crack came out. And that was—it was epidemic, not only here in Tallahassee but all across—it was evident. So I went to the Million Man March and I enjoyed that thoroughly. And so that was the end of my marching, once I went to the Million Man March, that was the icing on the cake for me. But I also enjoyed those other marches I went on, too. I enjoyed them.

Nothing would just light me up than to get me a sign and get in line. Get me a sign and get in line.

	S:	So wrapping up this interview, what other things do you want to share with us that haven’t been addressed maybe?

	B:	In hindsight—it’s 20/20, just like I said—we are going forward from here and we’re not gonna belabor the point that birds of a feather flock together. That’s birds. We’re not birds. We human beings. So I think that we can all get along. We can all get along, Rodney King said, “Can’t we call just get along?” And that’s what I would like to see—people living in harmony with one another. People treating people the way that they would like to be treated. Everybody just “I, I, I, I, I, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, I, I, me, me” but what about your brothers and your sisters in the human race, as huma beings? We should all expect and want the best for everybody. Put down them guns and pick up a Bible. And then you will probably see a change in the water, there won’t be so many hurricanes and tornadoes. But right now, they picking up the guns and





putting the Bibles in the garbage can, and that’s not a good thing. But I have enjoyed this interview and I hope I shared some experiences with y’all that perhaps someone, years from today will maybe be able to hear the things that I’m saying.

	S:	We are very humbled by you sharing such great stories. By giving you our time, and we’re going to definitely send you a copy on a CD. Also send you a transcript of the interview.

	B:	Thank you very much.



	S:	Sebastiano, do you have any other questions you want to?



	C:	Well, I guess the last question I got is what lessons do you hope to impart to younger people today and—if I could preface that like, when I see on college campuses, there is just what I guess in a lack of direction, like a lack of purpose. I see even a lot of people want to do thing but just don’t know how to. And as you said, you know, we can’t just relive the past, the past is the past. But if there’s something that—you said the church unites the community, in many ways, united people.

	B:	Absolutely, and the Civil Rights Movement more or less was born in the churches, because they were the only one, the pastors, they were supported by the congregations so they could stick their neck out. And come hell or high water, they were gonna stand up for what they believed in. And all this around your back and you bending over, just stand up straight, they can’t ride your back. So they showed a lot of leadership, the ones that were out there putting their life on the line. And even the foot soldiers, they showed a lot of fearlessness by putting





their lives on the line because there were times we didn’t know whether we were gonna get back home or not. But we did know that we had to do what we had to do. And we weren’t afraid to do it. We weren’t apologetic about it neither. We gon’ bust it all down, we not gon’ stand there and knock and ring the doorbell.

You know, because we—we pledge allegiance to the flag, United States of America, one God, indivisible, under one nation. We do our pledge of allegiance, that sort of thing. It means something. I think a lot of these things have to do with parenting. Racism, I think that’s something parents see. It’s just it’s like epidemic, you know, the more things seem to change the more they remain the same.

You’re worse off than fifty years—now, because we don’t have the people now have the backbone. They got a lot of little jawbones but they don’t have no backbone, they don’t wanna stand up. All you got to do is just hang on, stand up. They ain’t gon’ stand up. And I would like to see more people be concerned about other people, and I guess there are people like that. But by enlarge, it’s nothing like it was forty years ago.

	C:	It reminds me of a quote from Dr. King, I think toward the end of his life, where he said that he feared that he integrated his people into a burning house.

	B:	Huh?



	C:	I think he said that he had feared that he put his people into a burning house.



How the integration was starting—



	B:	Well, I alluded to that earlier, when I look back in hindsight. And I think a lot of people, like I said, they’ll whisper it under their breath but they don’t want you to know that—but when you look back at it: What didn’t we have? We had





everything everybody else had, for the most part. And you can’t do that, you got to go forward. Barack Obama, we going forward, we not going backwards.

	C:	It’s true, but we have the president we have right now, the past we can learn from, but the future doesn’t exist yet. So we have the present to act accordingly so that we have a better future.

	B:	Right, exactly. And that’s what I would like to see. And I admire y’all young people for having the umption and the gumption to want to carry on this oral history program. That’s just amazing.

	C:	Thank you.



	B:	And I’m impressed with you all. Godspeed, y’all keep on doing what you’re doing. C:	Thank you so much for agreeing to the interview.





[End of interview]





Transcribed by: Abby Lovett



Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, August 3,2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, August 9, 2021