AAHP 061B; Buchanan; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 061B Joel Buchanan African American History Project (AAHP)

Talk given on October 14, 2009

59 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: Joel Buchanan gave this talk at the SPOHP event, Black History in Florida: Where We Stand In the Age of Barack Obama. He shares his experiences in depth of being one of the first three Black students to integrate Gainesville High School. The discussion ranges from the initial planning that led to the integration, to the difficult experiences of the students in actually integrating the school, and the difficulty he found in finding any assistance whenever he needed help with subject matter. He also describes some of the sense of rejection he experienced from the Black community after he left Lincoln High School to integrate the White school in town. The talk concludes with question and answer with the audience.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Integration; Education; Civil Rights Movement]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 061B

Speaker: Joel Buchanan

Event: Black History in the Age of Barack Obama Date: October 14, 2009



	B:	[Inaudible 00:00] was the A. Quinn Jones and [inaudible 00:05] was two blocks, three blocks from my home. And I went there. I was a typical student. A, B student. And was involved in the activities as a student. And then there was the movement came along where the NAACP were active in Gainesville. And there were two parts. There was a youth branch and an 8th branch. And the branch was controlled by Thomas A. Wright. And the new branch was in charge by Charles Chestnut III. And we were going around, sitting-in, picketing, and they were talking about the change that was going to take place in America, in the United States, in Florida. And Reverend White wanted—I was grew up as a child and I was involved in all of the things I could be involved in. I finished elementary school at A. Quinn Jones, 6th grade went to Lincoln Heights School Junior College. Was involved in the student government there and became involved in the NAACP. I would go to meetings in the evening times and they got to the point where they were talking about they wanted to integrate the school system. And they wanted some students to participate in that activity. It had never happened before. I didn’t know what to expect from it, but I put my name in to be one of the persons to be considered. There were eight of us that signed a petition to integrate Gainesville High School.

Thomas A. Wright had gone around, talking to some people about being one of the first. And he couldn’t find anyone that was willing to partake. And his daughter, Lavonne Wright, was a senior and she said, “I’ll be one of the ones that will go forward to integrate the school system.” And he asked several other persons and my parents said that I could do it, I could sign to go to the school. Well, they were not going to let us integrate because it had never happened before. And so the NAACP filed a suit against





the school board to desegregate the public school system. And there were eighteen children names that was used upon the suit, the NAACP against the school board. And then the principal—Tiny Talbert was the superintendent of schools at that time. And they discussed that they would integrate instead of going through the suit of having us to sue. And so they decided that they would integrate, that they were going to first— were not going to admit all eight of us, they were going to select someone from the group. So they gave us a series of tests. And I finished the tenth grade going into eleventh grade. And I remember taking a series of tests. One was the standardized diagnostic test they give tenth graders. I took the senior placement test, the test that seniors take to see if they are able to do what they had to do. And I took another test. The Dean of Students at Lincoln High School, where I attended, talked with the three of us, said that we were not ready to go to Gainesville High School. And that we should not do what we had planned to do. Well, we were determined to get it done. So out of the eight, there were three students that were selected. And they were selected based on the grade point average and the test scores that had been received that we have taken. We had taken three sets of tests. And so it became down to the point that they took two girls and one boy. And I was that boy. The girl was Lavonne Wright, who was going to twelfth grade. Joel Buchanan was going to eleventh grade. And Sandra Williams was going to tenth grade. And that came out in the news—no it came out to us. And I remember my mother took me into the room to talk to me about what we were going to do. And she asked if I wanted to do what I had planned to do, to integrate the public school system. I told her, “Yes.” And she said something to me that I shall never forget. And she’s passed since then. She said that I would be successful, that I had to





do what I was going to do. For three reasons: one, for myself; two, for the family that I was in; and three, for every Negro child that was standing on my shoulders. Well all I thought I was doing was going to go from Lincoln High School to Gainesville High School. It was a challenging time. It was a time that I was called everything that you can imagine. And it was a lonely period because there was nobody in my class but me.

There was one Negro in the class, of eleventh grade, and that was Joel Buchanan. And I forget how many students, I think it was something like—I forget how many students were at Gainesville High School, but there were just three of us. And it was lonely. It was kept out of the paper and the day, the school, the day that we were going to start it, it was arranged that we would go to school together in a police car. And Thomas Wright, who was the president of the NAACP, would be the driver of the car. And we would have police protection from my home to the front of the school. And that I would have police protection once I got out of the car to enter the school. Well, it was interesting.

The day came. I was picked up at my home by Reverend Wright. He had his daughter in the car with him, Lavonne. Then they came around to pick up Sandra Williams. We lived on 5th Avenue, he lived the farthest down. Lavonne was in the car with her father. Then Sandra, then Joel. We went on 5th Avenue to 13th street, 13th we made a right turn onto 13th and went to Gainesville High School. We were met at school—we were not allowed to be at school before school started. We got to school after school started. The bell had sounded, the students had gone to class, and then we arrived. And all three of us went our different ways. And I was in I think C Wing. And the policeman came out with me and walked with me from the car door to the room that I went in. And I went into the room, I was met at the door by the teacher. I forget who my teacher was then, but I





was assigned a chair in the front row of the class. In some classrooms I’d sit in the first chair by the door or I’d sit in the chair the furthest from the door. Total silence. There were stares, stares, and stares. And there were nobody that said anything to the three of us and we didn’t see each other. We were all separate during the day, but I remember walking from one classroom to the next classroom with the detective with me. My policeman that was with me, on my side. And the children looked over, spread away from me because I was different. And the work was on the board, they had to hand out papers. They would not hand me a paper, the teachers would not pass the papers to me. They would put them on the desk where we could get it cause I was Black and her hands did not touch my hands. There were one class that a teacher did not say anything to me at all. I say that period was a very lonely period; it was a very quiet period. And it was a period of indifference. Was I called names? Yes, names were called, but there were more stares, stares, and stares. People looked at me and didn’t say much to me. And I had to go my way. The only thing that I remember about that period was that if I went to sit next to you, the students would get up and leave their chairs because they didn’t want to sit near me. Or there were times when I was given work to do, an assignment where I was supposed to have a person work with me. No one would work with me so that I could do that too myself. But the thing that I taught myself is that I was there to get a degree, a high school diploma. I had made the decision to go to the school, and I knew that I was not liked because I was a Negro. I was called a Negro; I was called a nigger. And one day the policeman said something to me that I remember very distinctly. I would walk to the restroom, and one day I went in the restroom, I was thinner than I am now, but I went in the restroom and the boys in the





restroom sort of ganged up to attack me. And I stood my ground, I was prepared to do what I had to do, if I had to fight. And the point was, I had to use the restroom, you need to move out of the way, and I need to go forth. That happened. And from that day forth, I didn’t go to the restroom anymore on the C Wing. I went to the lounge that was in the teacher’s lounge there. I had to get assignments from the library. I would go into the library to speak to the librarian. And the children in the library would just simply stare at me and nothing would happen. And they didn’t really help me, but I had enough sense, I had learned how to the Dewey Decimal System with the checking out of the books. I would go and get my own books, do the work, and go forth. One teacher, I remember, in eleventh grade, she’d said that I did not do the work well and she gave me a failing grade. And I didn’t get failing grades, at all, during my ten years in school. So I had a failing grade. And I was in eleventh grade. That would disturb Joel again. [Laughter]. So the only person I could talk to was the teacher and I wanted to find out why I had the grade and she said because I was a Negro. And that’s what she had to give me. So I got a failing grade. The first one, the only one. I am going to go ahead a few moments earlier. I graduated in the top six percent of my class. And we all graduated on time.

Lavonne Wright got into an altercation. They beat her up very badly one day going to the restroom. And she was severely beaten and she had to be taken to the hospital. And they asked her did she want to come back to the school and her father did not want her to come back, but she said she had to come back cause she was not going to let them control what she’s doing. But she had to do it. So she came back and finished and she finished the top four percent of the class. I put down in writing that that year, of the two years that I was there at Gainesville High School, was living hell because when you





are constantly being called something, and when you are constantly made to feel that you are indifferent, you think that you are. But it simply made me realize that I was better than what they were because they were out to get me and I was there to do my work. So a lot of the carrying on was totally insignificant to me. But I got the D from this teacher on my Americanism versus Communism class. And that was the only D that I ever had in my life. Thank you. And I had to have it. But I ended up graduating, teaching, and that summer I had taken some graduate courses. And I was doing the teaching and the teacher who had given me this D was in the session that I was doing. So I had a chance to get back to her. So I went to her and told her that I had gotten a D from her class, and I didn’t get D’s. And she looked at me, “What? Why are you saying this to me?” Well, the thing was that that D that she gave me, it had to be changed. And she was going to change it from a D to the grade I was supposed to have, which was a

B. And she looked at me very difficultly and thought for a while and she didn’t want to do it. And I said to her, “It’s going to be changed because I’m going to have it and I don’t have D’s.” [Laughter]. And I did get that grade changed, but the point that I saw, I saw hatred in a way that I had never seen before. But it gave me the ability to learn that I had to do better because they expected me not to do well. I was taking Algebra. I had a problem that I didn’t understand. The teacher was not communicating with me. So I left and went to the teacher that I had earlier. And he was a Black teacher, taught at Lincoln High School. And he invited me into his home, and he gave me a very rude awakening. He was disturbed that I would come to him that I would come to him to ask him for help after I left him to go to the White school. And he insulted me for being there with him, and didn’t give me the help that I needed, but that was fine. I took the reprimand from





him, then I came on campus to the University of Florida. There was a group that was called the LRY, the Liberal something. And that’s where I got the tutoring that I needed to be able to pass the test in the class. It wasn’t easy, but I survived. That pretty much was the way it was first two years here. Quiet. Indifferent. We walked down the hall. I pretty much had an easy way because students didn’t want to be near me. So they would make it—the space would open up and I had the freedom to walk where I had to walk. And I went to class by myself. And pretty much the way it was—-Would I do it again today? Yes and no. I would do it a little different. I think I would be a little bolder than I was then, going into eleventh grade, not knowing what students thought of me and what to expect from me. The teachers, many of them did not talk to me. They would put the work on the desk; I would get it. I had to do it myself. Meaning they would not take the work from me, but that was okay. The point is I did the work. You have to accept it. I was made to feel very indifferent, but then I was made to be known that I was welcome there. One student used to pass my desk and drop a piece of paper on the floor by the desk and I would pick it up and she would say to me that she knew that I was having a difficult time. She was praying for me. And she wanted to let me know that I had a friend in her. And so there was somebody that was in the class that was there for me, but she couldn’t say anything to me because you didn’t talk to a Negro. And I was the Negro in the class. I went on. I graduated on time. I did well, and I went on from there, Gainesville High School then I came to the University of Florida. So I got in one frying pan then, [Laughter] got into another one, because I had gone through the experience and the point is, it was difficult. But I was able to learn. And I made myself learn because it was thought that I could not learn or would not learn. And I was





surprised when I finished that there were many people that was in the community, were watching me, because we had never had a Negro in a White class in the city before.

And they were determined to see what I was going to do, how I did it, and if I was gonna be successful. And I was successful. I don’t know how, but I made it through and it was just a challenge. I’m going to let you ask me questions because there are probably things I haven’t talked about that I can, that you might want to know about. Yes Farn?

	U1:	Tell me about your lunch hour.



	B:	The lunch hour. If I recall correctly, we were in different grades. They arranged that the three of us would be able to get together for lunch. And we went into lunch the first time of the first week. You know, you go to lunch, everybody stood back in the line to let us through. The lunchroom workers did not feed us and would not take care our lunch for us. But they had a talk with—the person who was in charge of the student government, talked with them. And we were able to get our lunch and we would go to lunch. We had lunch together. We would get lunch prior to the other class and that’s how it was done. So we were able to get lunch. Anyone else? Yes?

U2:  You mentioned that there was a teacher from your former class or high school that gave you this reprimand. Did your going to the White high school influence your relationships with other peers in the Black community who didn’t go to the White high school?

	B:	No. Most of the people that knew me, knew what I was doing. And they found it odd. So I became pretty much an Uncle Tom. And they just looked at me—they didn’t do very much with me. And I never—we wanted to go to a game. And we went to Lincoln High School to go to the game. And we got to the gym to go to the game. A teacher came out of the gym, out of the stands, and told us that we were not welcome there and we





should leave. Because of the safety for the students. So we left. But then we wanted to go to another game. This was the next year and it was at Citizen Field. And we had to let the police department know that we were going to come and they arranged for us to sit in the stadium with policeman surrounding us for protection. And that’s how we saw the game. But we got to the game. Yes?

	U3:	How did you feel about having the police protection on campus at events like that?



	B:	I don’t really remember what I thought about it, but it was a necessity that we had to have it because we were told was once. I remember going to the police department discussing the safety and that they discussed that I could be assassinated. And I remember talking to them about being assassinated. But I had not internalized that if I was assassinated, then I’ll be dead now. [Laughter]. It never really resonated with me that I was going to be assassinated and that they were going to make it as safe for us as possible. And I think the reason we were able to go through it, because we all were very much a strong believer in the word of God. And that was the anchor that pretty much made it safe for us. My mother told me the day that I was going to go to school and that she was concerned about one, I had to do it for myself, two, did it for my family, and because of Negros that were standing on my shoulders, is that failure was not something that was thought about. And so I had to go, had to do it. And I was willing to go for these reasons. Honestly, the only thing that I remember is that there were two or three punches that was given to me when I was a little [inaudible 27:00] and I would take care of myself. And I didn’t fight back, but you pushed me, I pushed back. And that didn’t have to be the move. Yes?





	U4:	You said the dean of students told you that you weren’t ready to go to Gainesville High School. I’m wondering if he gave you a reason for that? Like was it because your academic performance? Was it because of something else?

	B:	We were pretty much prepared academically, but we were not ready because we had not been exposed to the students. We did not know what to expect. And this had not been done before. And so they said we were not ready, because we never had done this before. And we were not the ones to do this. I think they wanted children, children that were pretty much higher academically. And pretty much, that were being prepared to study and do this. The three of us, pretty much were free spirits. But my life changed when I got in school, I had to do better. And I did that. So, it was like that—I was not prepared then to do what I did. But when I got in there, I learned to do what I had to do. I better prepared myself and was able to go forth. Yes?

	U5:	I just had a question about the dean of students. Was that Mr. Thomas Coward? B:	The dean of students?

	U5:	At Lincoln High School.



	B:	No, Tom Coward, we’re talking about [19]64. Tom Coward was a teacher and he taught—

	U5:	Social Studies.



	B:	Social Studies. And I don’t remember him being the dean of students. U5:	Oh? That must have happened a couple years later.

	B:	If he became that, later on when I was in here. I came to the University of Florida to get my bachelor’s degree and he became the dean of students during the time I was here as a student.





	U5:	Thank you. B:	Yes?

	U6:	I actually have a couple questions. You described that you had some support from your parents from Chicago, of course it wasn’t important, but were they concerned about your safety?

	B:	Yes. My father did not want me to do what I was doing. My mother was the one that was the anchor. And I was involved in the NAACP. I was in two or three groups and that was the support that I had. But the point is that when I got home, I had the support that I needed to have there to do the homework, be prepared to go to school, and going to and fro. And one thing that I did do, the entire time I came to Gainesville High School, never once did I ever walk to school. I was driven to school every day; picked up every day. And pretty much in a controlled environment. Go head.

	U6:	Okay well, well just real quick. I’m just curious cause I don’t know. Did after your graduation, did a larger scale integration happened pretty quickly or was that a long, gradual process?

	B:	I graduated in June, in 1970. And the University of Florida was just in the process of getting ready to expand. And there were demonstrations on campus. And I think in [19]71 is when they had the major walkout. And so that’s when things began to explode here on campus. But my being there, I was the only student that was—well the three of us. Then there was one that came along the next year. But I was pretty much by myself. Yes?

	U7:	Was Barbara Gallant teaching when you were there?





	B:	Yes. She taught American versus Communism. [Laughter]. And she taught eleventh grade. And she was the one that in my class, if I remember correctly, the first day or week she had a group discussion around the room. And she shared with the students that I was in her class. I was going to be treated just like a regular student. And then we were going to get along very well together. And we had a very good relationship in her class. And we worked together. So pretty much there was no animosity at all in the class with Barbara Gallant. It went very well. Yes?

	U8:	Other than that teacher in particular like that tried to integrate you into the class, like the first time you were saying the stares, was there anybody that actually tried talking to you or approach you?

	B:	No.



	U8:	Or treated you the same? B:	No.

	U8:	Did you ever talk to that one girl that like threw the papers by you? B:	I talked to her in between classes.

	U8:	Okay. Were you able to be friends?



	B:	I think if I recall correctly—this has been so far long ago—is that she mentioned to me that she couldn’t be my friend because her friends would get upset with her. But she just wanted to let me know that I had a friend there. And she was the friend that I needed if I needed it.

	U8:	Were you able to contact her after your graduation and stuff?



	B:	I think we got along together. We became friends. And we were in class together in twelfth grade. And we worked on projects together. Yes?





	U9:	Is there anything that you would want to say now to a person or group of people that had bothered you back then. Is there anything you would want to say now?

	B:	I think the only thing that I see students today that were very careful in speaking to me when I was doing what I did. And one young man, I graduated. And he was very rude to me. And he came to see and wanted to apologize to me. And I did not accept his apology because I don’t think he was sincere. Because he had said some very ugly things to me, and thing that I learned during this period of time: you can say whatever you want to say to me but that doesn’t destroy who I am. And I went on to prove myself. And that he was bigger and had grown from the experience, but he was very nasty to me. And so when he asked for forgiveness, I couldn’t forgive him because I don’t think he was ready to be forgiven. So I didn’t do it then. But later on, over a period of time, I had finally forgave him for that. Yes.

	U10:	I think he pretty much asked my question if there was ever any, really at all, surface- level civility throughout your two years. But I was also gonna say, cause I heard some chuckles about that Americanism versus Communism that was required of all high school seniors throughout the state in the textbook with the same title was by J. Edgar Hoover.

	B:	Really? We had to have the course. I took it. And you read it; you did it. And that’s one of things I had to do. Yes?

	U11:	I’m stepping a little beyond just your personal experience but when Gainesville was desegregated one of the things that happened was the Black high school, Lincoln High School, was closed. Rather than having White students come to that school. Can you





talk at all about the impact that had on the Black community and the Black faculty that were teaching?

	B:	I remember—I had graduated. And when I graduated, my area of studies was Speech and Math. And I did my internship in Jacksonville at Terry Parker High. And my teacher that I interned under was Mrs. Dobley. Then I taught there for three years at Episcopal High in Jacksonville, then came back here to Gainesville. And my first year teaching was at Williams Elementary. Then I went on to Howard Bishop. I remember going to the walkout when they had the walkout for Lincoln. And talked to the students about being involved. We had to be supportive of each other. And that the only thing I remember, I was booed for saying anything that evening because I was talking about what they had to do to support each other to bring about the unification to support what they were doing. And the support they were doing was actually wanted to support Lincoln High, not to have it closed. I was the wrong person to talk about that because I had come over and I had integrated. So I was talking about something that I had not done, for them to do, and I was booed out of the auditorium. I said my peace and I left. And I did something that I remember, just since you asked the question. They had to walk out from Lincoln High, and they were demonstration on campus. And they were staying in the building that’s been torn down on University Avenue and 13th Street.

	U12:	13th Street? B:	Pardon?

	U12:	Was it a Baptist church?



	B:	I don’t think so. It was a building over here and I went over that evening to—the students had walked off of University. The president had suspended them for caudal.





And I went over to be polite. I took some money and I took some bread. Stuff for them to make sandwiches. And I was booed out of that. And they shared with me that they didn’t need my support and didn’t want it. So I was trying to give support to the cause, but they did not see the way I saw it. Yes?

	U13:	You said that your peers at Lincoln thought that what you were doing was really strange to them. At what point do you think it kind of switched from that to like a consensus of the community that what you did was a very prideful thing?

	B:	I think it was near the end of it. People would look at me, they would say things to me like, “What you’re doing, we understand.” When I knew that they were pleased with what I was doing is that after I had gone through the years I would go to meetings. I would picket and to get involved in their activities. And many times I would be verbal in what I was doing to support them and they appreciated my support. But it was an isolated support that I was doing. Not that I had whole community support. Yes?

	U14:	I’m curious how—



	B:	Talk a little louder please.



	U14:	I’m curious about how having to do things on your own and not receiving any tutoring, things like that, affected your philosophy on education going into education. And then how it affected being a student at UF. If it helped you because you had this ethic or how you incorporated that into becoming a teacher.

	B:	All I remember is that if you said to me something I can’t do and I want to do it, I found a way to get it done. Two, my parents were working parents and there were three other children that they were doing their thing. And I was here promoting was I was going to do. I remember that I had to do a project and my project was the deficiency of vitamins





on the body, the effect it would have on the body. And I think if I remember correctly, I worked with Vitamin A, C, D or E. And I had white mice. And then we had the control; there was mice that got some of everything to eat. And then there were the mice that did not have these vitamins. And I had them on the back porch of my home—we had a porch. And I think if I remember correctly, I had a cage with the rats that were lacking Vitamin E, the one that was lacking Vitamin A, and the one that was Vitamin C. And then the control. And the children would come in the neighborhood to see me working with these white mice. And I had to feed them and so what I was doing, I was doing my work. Well first off all, the project won the school project. I won there. And I went to the next level. And I went to the next level, the state level. And I was in the state project, and I was not allowed to be with my project because I was a Black person. And my project had gone to the White competition. And I remember my teacher saying to me that I had to be quiet because it was not a competition that was for Black persons. And that I was a Black student. But I said to him, “That’s my project, my effort, and I’m going to communicate doing that.” And I did not get the award. They gave it to a student, but I was not the student to get the award. It was supposed to be for me, but I could not get the award. Those kind of things I dealt with. But the thing was not important whether I got the award, the award was—it was important to get the award. It wasn’t important whether it was given to me. I received the award for the project; it was given to someone else. And I had to accept that then because I was told that I was not supposed to be there. My being involved in the process of going through the school showed that I was able to do it. The inconvenience it caused me, and the inconvenience it caused the





other two girls was not that important. The important part was I was in the school, I got the award, and I was able to follow through with what I proceeded to do. Yes?

	U15:	I’ve sat and reflected so deeply on what you’ve had to say tonight and I just appreciate your words so much. And I just wanna know, in light of so many difficulties, so many intentional obstacles, so many harms, when you look at today’s college student or at least how younger people are portrayed on television, there is a there is a perception of just kinda going through life. On Facebook, iPod, not taking things seriously. And you see on television at least kids are portrayed as complaining about little things. What kind of advice do you give from the life that you’ve lived to someone of the current generation of undergrad students on how to deal with disappointment or not achieving things which for them may be totally serious things, but nothing like what you’ve described? I’m sure people in the room are saying you’ve described 10 or 15 horrible things, and you know people, “Oh I didn’t get tickets for the gator game.” So how would you put it your life in perspective in order to teach a lesson for everybody on disappointment or not being able to achieve?

	B:	The thing that is important, the one thing that my mother—and my mother was the one that pretty much gave me the inspiration to do what I did, thank you—was I knew that I was going to have difficulties. And I knew that there were people that did not care for me. And that I made the decision to do what I did and I had to do it. That as long as I was fulfilled, and as long as I was getting done what needed to be done, that was the most important thing then the whole world were to do. And when I look at students now, they complain about tickets for the game and what do I do about the tickets for the game. One, you don’t go to the game. [Laughter]. Or you go to the game. [Laughter].





And that’s what you have to deal with is that there were other issues that was more important to me then, than now. In teaching, the one thing that I didn’t do that I’m proud very proud, you’d have roll book. And when I when I would get my roll book, the first thing I would do in teaching, two things, is that I would invite all of my homeroom class to my home. And I lived on 13th street in an apartment there right before you get to the—I can’t remember what the thing was, but it was there. I would have all of my students there and I would have them come with their parents. And I wanted to see what the student was like with his mother and father. And once I saw Johnny with his mother and father, that told me what kind of person he would be in class. And there’s a young man right now who cuts my hair and I had him in 4th grade and 7th grade and he was a very stubborn young man. And he found it difficult to do things. And he came that night with his parents and I simply talked to his father, very similar, and I asked to see mothers. I would want you to bring your father to class to see whether you were married, whether your parents were married. Or if your mother was not married to your father, I wanted your father to come to see me. And I told the father about this young man. He had a stubborn problem. He was very difficult in that he had to do what he had to do in class, he had to work with the other students, and he had to be cordial. And his father worked on that matter with him, I’m quite sure, touched him, punished him, and he graduated. He now is a barber. But I said that to say this. Roy was one of those persons that was very into himself. And he was stubborn. He didn’t want to do what he was supposed to do, but we had to let him know that you have to do things with your peers in your class. And you have to be able to be affordable and be able to—people to work with you and you work with them. And once he got that under his control, he





became a better person. So I think children can be better. I wish I could talk to you about what school was like and for you to be able to experience that encounter. I doubt right now, if any one of you could sit in a room that I’ve sat in where teachers don’t talk to you or your work is not perceived to be correct and it’s correct. Or you are thought of being dumb and you aren’t dumb. How that would feel for you to be in and when you succumb that, it’s better. The one thing I feel very good about is that I’ve taught school and now I’m here at the University of Florida and I see students periodically that were very rude to me. Very, very, very, very rude. And I haven’t let that destroy the individual that I am, that it has made me a better person. And that, because I taught them and they came up to be with me, they are better people now because of that experience that I had. And so when I see students today in school and they’re saying they’re having a difficult time learning to read and write and they are learning difficulty how to be able to be able to survive. And I tell them, “Well, I had to do it. You can do it.” And that you have to be, have self-worth, be determined in what you are going to do, be that person internally in spite of you, that would make it a better place for you. Are there any other questions? Yes?

	U16:	Speaking of someone who was on the front line of desegregation, I was wondering if you might be able to reflect on what gets misremembered or not remembered at all in the history of segregation in Gainesville.

	B:	Say that again for me?



	U16:	What gets misremembered or not remembered at all about segregation in contemporary records and citations. What bothers you the most about the way segregation is portrayed. Or desegregation.





	B:	We don’t talk about it. We don’t hear about it. We don’t hear the parts that are the nasty part about it. The part that is so unthinkable to be thought about, to have it happen to you. I remember that I was in a class, went to the teacher to ask for help, and was looked at like you’re looking at me right now. Nothing. But that did not stop me doing what I had to do; I did it anyway. And say, “Here’s my work.” She wouldn’t take it. If I had to wait for her to respond to me, I would not have ever been there. So it was one of those things is that do I deal with the individual or do I deal with what I want to deal with? And the thing that was important to me was to get an education and that’s what I was there to do. And I was not gonna let anything bring about that change. Yes?

	U17:	I grew up about the same time as Joel and experienced the same things. I grew up in Manatee County in [inaudible 52:53] and I was the first Black student. And I kind of- went through a formerly all-White high school in fall of [19]64. It was me, my brother, two cousins, and three other Blacks. As Joel so happily put it, it was a very, very challenging time. By the time I was a senior, I more or less ran the school. Then I came up in UF. So, after going through what I went through in high school, it was the same video, different bed at UF. I was one of the students that walked out in the fall of [19]71. And those experiences never leave you. But it gives you one heck of a perspective as to what’s important and what’s not. And then seeing how things have progressed over the last forty years, I think we’ve—I’ve thought of too many people, I know some people who remember the White fountains and Colored fountains. Some people say, “What was that about?” But these were things that shaped the nation and I never thought in my lifetime that I would see an African American as president, but I





lived long enough to see it. And there were things that happened that if we were to tell you about it, you would say, “I don’t believe you.” But it happened.

	B:	That gentleman right there was in school when I was in school, and he was a terror. [Laughter]. I was, I pretty much was here. President O’Connell, Stephen C. O’Connell, was president of the University of Florida. And when I came to the University of Florida, I made a point to make it a point to see him. And I went up to tell the president who I was, when I was on campus, what I was doing and so forth. And we became friends.

And I lived behind Mom’s Kitchen over on 5th Ave. And one night I had problems going to sleep because of the hit n’low going on all night long. So I came back to see the president and I told the president I had a problem going to sleep because of blahblahblah, the music. Well I don’t know what he did, but all I know is that Dean Lester Hail was the dean of student affairs and Lester Hail came out to my home, to see where I lived and what the noise was about. And they would go on till four or five in the morning. And then all of a sudden, I got a place to stay right down from Tigert. The two-story building, the six-story building right down from Tigert. I lived there. Joe Matan, he was the president of one of the groups that was picketing and they wanted to see Joel Buchanan over in one of the dormitories. And they sent a delegation for me to come over to talk about walking out from the University of Florida. Well I was on student financial aid and I had a scholarship. And I was arrogant then and I’m still arrogant. [Laughter]. And the question was asked—they had five students. They had the president of the student body, they had the Black cheerleaders, and they had Joel Buchanan, and they had someone else there. And they wondered what I was going to do. Was I gonna walk out? And told them I had a scholarship, I was on a scholarship. If





I walked out, I would lose my scholarship. If they gave my scholarship, the student gave me the scholarship, I would leave. If not, I was gonna be here. And he was one of the most—he was an activist and he carried on real well and told me what I had to do, what I had not to do. And the point is you go head and do what you have to do. He did his demonstrated, he picketed. I did what I had to do. But the point is, we were all in it together. And it was an interesting time. And right now I wish my memory was better, but the challenging that I would like to see all of you, every one of you in here right now, if you had to sit and go through what I went through with being the first student to try and get into the University of Florida, to prove that you could be like anyone else. You could think and learn. I did it. But the part of it saying that I was going to do it was not possible. And now people think that I’m someone special because I went through the process and did it, but it was difficult. And I tell you I’ve had the word nigger, that’s been called to me so many times. And I remember me going to the board, “go to the board Joel, do this work, do the problem.” Told I couldn’t do it. Every time I went to the board, I solved the problem. I proved that I could learn. All you gotta do it teach me. If you teach me, I can give it back to you. And I did that. I want thank you for allowing me to be here, thank you for allowing me to talk to you. [Clapping]. It ran long because I couldn’t get it all together, but it’s coming back to me. Thank you very much for being here.

[End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Simone Yuille, August 2017



	Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, September 29, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019