AAHP 249; Favors and Favors; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 249 Lurie and Brian Favors African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant and John Johnson on February 5, 2012 1 hour, 25 minutes | 65 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Lurie and Brian Favors describe their involvement in African American studies and affairs at Penn State University. They both were at Penn State as students when they decided they wanted to address the problems that plagued the Black and Latino communities on campus. Through their creation of the Black Caucus with LaKeisha Wolf, they formed a support group and unified community for African American Students. They attended the Faculty Senate meeting, which was ended prematurely with no decision. Following the meeting, they had the president and Faculty Senate of Penn State sign a document admitting that the administration failed to meet the diversity initiatives they promised. The school held a “No Hate at Penn State” rally to essentially cover-up the Black Caucus’s efforts to secure funding for a Black research institute, so they gathered thousands of people to march at the rally and demand the school administration’s support.





Keywords: [African American History; Penn State University; Africana Studies; Black Caucus; No Hate at Penn State; Student Organizing]

































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 249

Interviewee: Lurie Favors and Brian Favors Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant, with John Johnson Date: February 5, 2012



	D:	Okay. We’re recording now. I’m Justin Dunnavant with the Oral History Project, Samuel Proctor. Today is February 5th. And we are at the Institute of Black Culture. And I’m here, if you guys could please say your names:

	LF:	Lurie Daniel Favors. BF:	Brian Favors.

	J:	John Johnson.



	D:	All right. So, I guess we can just get started. I know there’s a lot of history you guys want to talk about, especially surrounding Penn State. But I guess we can start where you at, where you’re from originally, and, how you got to Penn State, eventually. I don’t know if you want to start right there?

	LF:	Sure. Right now, we live in Brooklyn, New York. And I’m originally from Germany, Scharfenberg. After I finished high school there, I came to Penn State for undergrad, where, I majored in Africana Studies and Spanish language.

	BF:	Okay. My name is Brian Favors, once again. And I’m originally from Sacramento, California. I did my undergrad work at UC Davis. And I was a student athlete, was interested in pursuing a career in athletic administration. I received a scholarship from the NCAA to go to Penn State and work for the athletic department and pursue a master’s degree, which is what brought me to Penn State. After completing my master’s degree I accepted a job in student affairs in a leadership center.

	D:	What was your athletic scholarship in?





	BF:	It was a scholarship—I was one of six African American students who received a post-secondary scholarship for careers in athletic administration.

	JD:	Okay, so. Cool. And what years did you all enter Penn State? LF:	I got there in 1995 and left in 2001.

	BF:	And I got there in 1997, and left in 2001.



	D:	Okay. Cool. Where did this story begin, then? Where should we start? Should we start when you all first entered Penn, or did it kind of begin a little bit after that?

	BF:	I would say that it pretty much started—I received a job in student affairs in a center called the AT&T Center for Service Leadership. My job description was I was in charge of leadership programs. So, I ran community service projects, service learning projects. But kind of informally, I was hired by the assistant vice president of the university through some networks of Black folks who really wanted to help to kind of cultivate leadership within the Black Caucus and the Black community. There’d been a lot of issues with disorganization, and subpar money management, and whatnot. So, I was a young professional who had a good rapport with the students. I was just a few year older, like a big brother: I’d done a lot of work as a graduate student; I’d worked to kind of organize a lot of Black student athletes. So they hired me in hopes that I would be able to kind of cultivate some leadership amongst Black student organizations. One of the first things that we did, I guess the story starts with the Minority Leadership Seminar, which was a program we had created. And we initially had created this program, because like most college campuses, a lot of the Black community organizations are just kind of disorganized. They have a lot of internal strife. I remember when





we started the organization, our primary goal was to bring representatives from all the different Black organizations to the table on a weekly basis—really, just so we weren’t planning events on top of each other. You know, what would happen at Penn State—very similar to what happens all over the country—what they say, “It’s either, like, feast or famine.” It would either be one night where there were three programs going on at once with Black student organizations, or you’d have weeks where nothing was going on. So, we really just wanted to make sure we weren’t scheduling them on top of each other. And we also knew there were a lot of beefs amongst the fraternities, and just divisions. You had your football players, you had your Greeks, you had your gospel choir, you had your conscious people, and there was nobody that brought them together. So, what I did with the Minority Leadership Seminar, which is what it was called initially, was just to get some pizza—[Laughter]—bring representatives from all these organizations together, in hopes that we could cultivate leadership. There was one brother, it actually started with myself. He was a junior at the time, a young brother by the name of Chenits Pettigrew, who was an outstanding student. And he was a young brother. He was an artist. He was an MC. But he was one of the students that I’d recognized that didn’t have beef with anybody. And he was somebody who kind of flowed through all the different—you know, he had respect in all the different circles. So, I really thought we were connected through my supervisor. We didn’t know what we wanted to do. We had talked about creating the retention program. Then we decided to do the seminar. But I felt like Chenits was the one brother who, affiliation—he was the brother who would be





able to kind of help me to bring these individuals together because he didn’t have beef with anybody.

	LF:	And that’s important. Because when you’re dealing with the college campus segment of the Black community—which is really just a reflection of the broader issues that we have as it pertains to community divisions—having people who are able to connect across groups, and who are able to leave the individualistic baggage sort of at the door, becomes very important. Because community division is such an inbred part of what are community has been dealing with— since our connection with this country, anyway. And so, having a space where the Black Gospel Choir could connect with the African Senate students, and where the NAACP students who typically beef with the Black Caucus would be able to do that, that’s fundamental. Because we don’t have a space where that happens. And it’s really no different than Crips and Bloods, right? It’s really no different than the Urban League versus the NAACP, out in the real world. And the one thing we’re lacking that other communities have and we don’t, is that space that allows us, that no matter what, we can come together and agree that on our Blackness, we are united. And, as it pertains to how we respond, we can be united. We live in Brooklyn. You have the Hasidic Jews; you have the Jewish from all different sects; the very, very Orthodox, the very very Reformist. And they might completely disagree on everything. But when it comes to defending Israel? The hats, the costumes that differentiate them and separate them goes out the door. And they come together and are able to have that space. But that’s built into their culture. So, for us, fifty, sixty years ago, a group of five us standing





on the corner and talking, somebody could get lynched for that. You have a four hundred year period where we’re not able to come together and plan; we’re not able to come together and exchange ideas, challenge ideas; try to attempt a revolution—or even attempt a project and see it succeed or fail. And if it fails, go back and analyze what happened and try it again. We didn’t have that. So, you have a four hundred year period where our capacity for planning and our capacity for being intentional—

	BF:	Our own interest.



	LF:	—in our own interest. Where our capacity for doing things that every other healthy community can do was stymied. So, we’re really at a deficit. So having that space—it sounds very simple: “Oh, bring everyone together and talk.” But, for people who were not allowed to do that on pain of death, it becomes very, very significant.

	BF:	And not to stay too long because I know we got to move, but one of the things that she talks about is just the ability to act in your own best interest. Everyone who came to America, came to America with a plan and a culture. And your culture was your protection, your culture was your base, your culture was your foundation. And the slaves were the group of people who were brought here, worked harder than everyone, but could not work in their own best interest.

Because the who institution of slavery was based on keeping us at the bottom, and us working in our best interest put the whole thing at risk—where Chinese people, everybody else could do that. We bring this historical legacy and this historical baggage to the table. And we didn’t even know all this at this time.





We’re just kind of fast-forwarding; we just wanted Black folks to get along. We just wanted the Ques and the Kappas to stop fighting, and the parties that we had in road to stop looking like we was in Compton. We just wanted to have a cohesive community. So, we brought all the student organizations together in the initial phase. We had sent out letters. We wanted a representative from every student organization. And when we all got together, it turned into a fight. There was a sister from the Zetas, and she said, “Well, we already do service, and we shouldn’t have to—”, and it just turned into what we now call, it just was the crabs in bucket, Willie Lynch. Just division. We left that meeting feeling very frustrated because we couldn’t even bring student leaders to the table because the beefs and the baggage was so deep. So we just decided, “You know what? We going get pizza, we hope you send a representative.” I was working with a number of just freshmen and sophomores, young students that I knew; we just said, “We going let whoever want to come, come.” And that was the Minority Leadership Seminar. So, we didn’t really have a format. We had a schedule. We’d have a topic, and initially, we’d bring a staff person to kind of facilitate. It was good to be there, we would eat, and there was this collective power, but it wasn’t really going anywhere. And I think it was the second or third workshop, one of the brothers, brother Joe Dawkins, had brought—Dead Prez had just come out. And there was a song called, “These schools can’t teach us shit / my people need”—can I cuss on this?—“My people need freedom / We trying to get all we can get.” And I just remember that was the first day that the seminar came alive, and we stated having this conversation about our education, and how it wasn’t really leading, it





wasn’t teaching us how to solve our own problems. And I think that was the first time that we started to see our seminar take form. To make a long story short, after about four or five weeks, attendance went from about twenty people to about thirty people, thirty five people; we changed the format around where it was more of an organic conversation, and we had a little more structure to it.

One of the things we started to see is that all these Black students who didn’t know each other: the brother from the continent, the sister from upper class, the brother from the hood, the Philly—you know, you had the Philly brothers with they shirts buttoned up here, you had the New York brothers with the Timbs. But you started to see the football players, you started to see all these brothers and sisters that traditionally would walk by each other, who had these different beefs, you just started seeing people having conversations. Sankofa would end and I remember Allen and Joe were having a conversation and they had a little tension from something before. So as a staff member, I just remember being able to step back and say, “Wow, this is powerful! These young people are realizing that as many differences as we have, when we get them all together in this circle, we see, why we are very connected. And our struggles are very similar.” Toward the end of the year, we had identified a number of issues on campus. We weren’t getting money for our programs and whatnot. And we decided, “Wow, this group on thirty of us, if we were to connect our friends and whatnot, maybe we could vote some people in office.” And we created a campaign with just this little seminar, and I think we got like four people in office.

	LF:	Eight. It was something like eight people.





BF:  Was it eight? It was a lot. I don’t remember the exact number, but I remember it was something we hadn’t done.

LF:  Never that many Black people at one time that had been elected to student body positions. And they were key positions. They weren’t, like, just minor league. So, it was very significant in that regard.

	BF:	The seminar ended, I think it was maybe ten weeks, the first term. And we were real excited. We left—my office was really excited because we had attendance, and we had kind of started to buzz. So, the summer came and we decided, “Okay, we going take this to another level.” We don’t even remember what day it was, how we came about it. But somehow me, Chenits, and Joe for the world can’t remember how we decided to call it “Sankofa,” but something happened where we had decided we going call this Sankofa. During that year, that was the first year I’d ever—Keisha had introduced us to pouring libations. So, we added libations, we started each meeting out with a libation. And I guess to back up, that summer, we had hired a new assistant director in the Paul Robeson Cultural Center, a young brother who had just came in, my brother Mike Hannon. We had this brother Nate Thomas who worked there. He ran this program called the S- Plan that was for retention for Black and Latino students. So, we had gotten some resources. We had really spent that summer making a plan so that we could come back in the fall and take to another level. And that’s exactly what we did. By the time we came back for the next term, I mean, we had topics laid out. We had, like, twelve topics a term for male-female relationships, Black economics—





	LF:	Diet and nutricide.



	BF:	Yeah. We tried to hit all the issues that were plaguing our community. LF:	Family dynamics, sexism—all, you know.

	BF:	Yeah, we just—and that’s when I met brother John Johnson. D:	What year was this?

	BF:	This was 2000? LF:	2000, 2001.

	BF:	I guess we came back 2000. Sankofa attendance grew, at the end we added a communal affirmation, which was poem by brother Gil Scott-Heron that Mike Hannon had introduced us to. So we’d start with libation. We’d have this incredible conversation, and then at the end we’d all hold hands and do this communal affirmation. And the energy just got real high. We started to create a community. One of that kind of came out of it—oh, we had put this young sister named LaKeisha Wolf, we had started working with her, and she decided she was going to run—I take that back. I rewind. I rewind. The president—

	LF:	The years! [inaudible 13:40]! [Laughter]



	BF:	Joe Dawkins was the president of Black Caucus the year that it started. Joe Dawkins was a brother who had been on the football team. Real popular brother.

	LF:	Scholarship football player.



	BF:	Scholarship athlete, but he had really wanted to be down. He had wanted to do more in the Black community. Looked like you, come to think of it. Y’all look pretty similar. He was working with us. So, the next year, LaKeisha Wolf became the president of Black Caucus and we really wanted to work to make this the





project of the Black Caucus. Because we felt like the Black Caucus should’ve been the umbrella to all the organizations. So, we had reached out to African Student Association, Caribbean Student Association. They’d all been people, all had members who had been a part of Sankofa. We came back the next year, strong. We had Greek representation, athletic representation. And this young sister Keisha had just had a lot of support. Because usually, the president that came in after wasn’t connected to the other one. And she just had the administrative support. And we hit the ground running. Sankofa attendance grew. We were starting to create a family. We started having Sunday dinners with the elder in the community, Momma Price. Now, we not only meeting there, we’re having Sunday dinners. We’re building the community, and it became a support group for a lot of students. A lot of the younger students who weren’t connected were able to come there and just get connected to a community. It was beautiful.

	LF:	And I just I want to again reiterate the importance of that, because that’s—it sounds like something that every other group has. But we don’t have that. And when you’re not intentional about creating it, you will have a vacuum of leadership, a vacuum of community, and that’s what most college campuses, most Black communities, have. You’ll have a rally around an issue. So, someone gets shot, we’ll come together and rally, and we react. But this preplanning and intentionality around creating that and laying the foundation for that allows you to respond instead of being reactive. So, as we’re going to get to in just a moment, when things begin happening, you already have the institutional community





support that you need, which is largely absent when some tragedy hits our community.

	BF:	Which, ironically enough, the year that we started the seminar, actually, before we started it, a whole group of students had received hate emails. And they traced it, they said it went back to Temple. They kind of tried to say that this wasn’t anything significant. We had had a number of different community forums around it, and the president came out and spoke, but there was never really any resolve. But we had reacted. Okay? So, the next year when Sankofa seminar is going real well. My office, they loved me, because the kids are involved. Every day, people are coming in the office. Every time somebody comes in the office, they end up in a planning meeting. And it was great, because my office became a place where people could just come, and before you know it, you helping out for the next session. We added—we started to create somewhat of a model. So it wasn’t just a conversation that was all over the place. Now, we’ve kind of developed it on another level, but we tried to make the initial questions something that anybody could answer. Now we call those the “self questions.” Whatever the issue is, they’re entry point for anybody to get in, whether you’re conscious or not. Collective: How this issue impacts us collectively. Root: What’s the root of the situation? Responsibility. So, within a two-hour period, we’re going to go through that whole model so we can have a holistic conversation. Beautiful. Oh! LaKeisha Wolf. Now we have a proactive community, we started an African- centered Saturday school for the kids in the community, because now we’re doing things. And we’re really talking about making some changes. A lot of the





kids in the Penn State community are getting in trouble. They’re all middle class kids, but they want to be thugs. And we realizing a lot of our issues transcend class; we’re in an identity crisis. So now, we’re creating an African Saturday school for the kids. There was an article in the newspaper that covered some Greek event, and LaKeisha Wolf, the president of the Black Caucus—it was done very poorly, and there was like a bad picture. The White journalist had come and taken a bad picture. Really, she was probably scared to go in there. She took a bad picture, and it was a bad article, and it was right next to—

	LF:	Something about crime. Something—the way it looked, it was like this bad picture for this event was related to this article about something criminal, or some negligent, atrocious, negroid behavior.

	BF:	So, Keisha wrote an article about how culturally disrespectful and racist it was, and boom-boom-boom-boom-boom-boom-boom. About a week later, she goes to her mail and she gets a death threat. And it says, you know, “Nigger, keep your mouth shut,” blahsy blahsy blah, I don’t remember the specifics. And she was kind of scared. But we kind of thought it was, “Okay, a student leader, we making moves. It’s probably some racist students, they’re trying to play a joke, whatever the case—”

	LF:	And especially in the light of the way that the previous year, those sixty-five emails were kind of, “Oh! It wasn’t anything local.”

	BF:	“It wasn’t a big of a deal.”



	LF:	“It was kinda small,” hush-hush.



	D:	Was it in respect to something specific, those emails?





	BF:	This one was specific to letter she had wrote to The Collegian. LF:	Right, but the emails—

	BF:	Basically saying, like, “Shut up.” LF:	Right.

	BF:	The emails were just like, “We don’t want you don’t want you niggers around here, get off our campus.”

	LF:	Right. And it was from the Patriot, which we later found out was like— Pennsylvania’s odd, because it’s north of the Mason-Dixon line, but they say you got Philly on one side, Pittsburgh on the other, and 1920s Mississippi in between.

	BF:	Mmhm.



	LF:	So, unbeknownst to us, there is an abundance of hate groups. BF:	We didn’t know that.

	LF:	We didn’t know at the time that Pennsylvania has one of the highest number of racist hate groups of any other state in the Union. So we’re like, “Oh, the Patriot? Who’s that?”

	BF:	And we didn’t know there was a history of this. LF:	Right.

	BF:	On campus. Ku Klux Klan recruiting on campus. That this had always been the case, especially if you were progressive leader. Okay?

	LF:	Mmhm.



	BF:	We took it to the administration, but didn’t think that much of it. Keep going. I think we brought it up and did some forums around it, but we was like, “Word, okay. We going use this!” About three weeks later, and this always symbolizes





one of the most significant nights of my life. We had just left Sankofa. We had a powerful session. Keisha goes down to her mailbox, she gets a second death threat. And it says, “We warned you”, this, that, “Nigger, shut your mouth. Now you niggers can’t even win a football game. Stay out of the beds of our White trash whores.” And now they’re talking about the football players. And this was a time period when Penn State started losing. They had a losing season. So now we’re reading this, and it says, “And that other nigger, Don Edmen, we should’ve got him, too.” They said this, well, like, who’s Don Edmen? Come to find out he was a Black student who had been busted in a riot. And he had his picture in the paper. They had some riots over the summer, something, a Black man was in the paper. And they said, “Give this letter to him.” And we didn’t know what was going on. But I’ll never forget it: some students came to my office, they said, “Keisha got another death threat.” So we went down to the Paul Robeson Cultural Center, and we called the Vice Provost of Education Equity to tell him.

And this time, she was kind of scared. And I’ll never forget it, man. They sent this little dinky security guard cop, and he was like—a little guy, you could tell he was new—and he was like, “Uh—,”asking questions. But Keisha was, like, scared.

And they were so nonchalant about it. And nobody asked her if she had a ride home. It was just—I remember as a staff member thinking like, “What’s going on?” And she started crying, and her nose started bleeding. And I just remembered thinking, “Whoa!” So all the students kind of got together, and we had prayed and what not. And we decided, “Let’s call Momma!” That was the elder in the community, we used to have Sunday dinners at. So we go to Momma





Price’s house, and we’re praying, and we got all the students there, and we’re talking about it. And she starts telling us more about the history of hate groups and whatnot. And she tells us, “You go down to the president’s office tomorrow, and you demand that they address this,” and whatnot. And I’m thinking, “Okay, the students going do that.” And then she tells me, “You. You go down there with your little sister.” I’m a second-year student affairs staff. I just got in student affairs, one of the newcomers of the year. And I’m thinking, so I’m going go to the president’s office? But Momma told me to do it! We just prayed. So, I’m going! So we leave there, we go looking for Don Edman. We can’t find him. We call him, and his line’s busy. We’re like, “Why’s his line busy?” This is the night we go to his house, we’re beating on his door. We can hear the TV’s on. We’re like, “What’s going on? What’s going on?” Make a long story short, he’d been sleep.

Finally, he wakes up; nobody had even contacted him to tell him, the security, that he’d gotten a death threat. So he was confused, and we were confused. We were feeling like, “Why wouldn’t they tell us?” Next morning, we go to the president’s office. We get to the president’s office, we all go in there. They say, “The president can’t see you, he’s busy, he’s busy.” Keisha is demanding to see him. They bring in the Black man, the Vice Provost of Educational Equity, he’s saying, basically, “It’s just a prank, you guys are taking it too serious.” One of the police officers comes and he spills the beans. He says, “Wow, the football player, and the board of trustee member?” He brings up death threats at football player and the board of trustee member got.

	LF:	Who’s Black.





	BF:	And he realizes after he says it, we’re shocked that we don’t know. And then he kind of, you know—and we’re like, “What?” So now we’re thinking, “Well, what in the world is going on?” President ends up coming. He’s running game on my kids, acting like it’s not a big deal. I’m praying. I’m seeing what’s going on right now. And I’m seeing that, first of all, how come we don’t know about the board of trustee member and the football player who’s getting death threats? So, he runs a little game on us, whatever the case. We end up leaving. As we leave the building, we see a football player, freshman football player. So we run over to him, we say, “Brother, so are football players getting death threats?” And he just gets shook. “Um, we not supposed to talk about it, you got to ask the captains.” So, we know something’s going on. And we like, “What in the world is going on?” Come to find out, football player are getting death threats.

	LF:	Not one.



	BF:	Not two, not three, not four, not five. And not only just football players, some of their parents are getting death threats. So, we see them at a Mr. Black Penn State event, and we’re talking to the football players, some of the students.

Football players like, “Yeah. He got one. Oh, he got three! Oh, his mom got some.” So were finding out all these cats are getting death threats, and the students who are getting death threats, Keisha is talking about the football players too. So we’re saying, “Wait a minute! There’s a cover up going on. Something is fishy.” So, make a long story short, right about this time we had a professor who gives us this document called, The Framework to Foster Diversity. See we didn’t know all this history. Come to find out Penn State was under a





desegregation mandate from the [19]80s because of the contentious racial climate, and the lack there of diversity in faculty, and all these different things. But this document, nobody had seen it!

	LF:	And this federal mandate was directly tied to the diversity funding that they were getting from the state and federal government. So, there was an entire host of funding, and a stream of funding that, so long as they were in compliance with this mandate, they would continue to get. But when you look at The Framework to Foster Diversity and you evaluate the mandate, we could demonstrate that they had fundamentally failed in five out of seven of the key targets for this mandate. But they were still getting these funds.

	BF:	And the initial thing were looking at was, how they are supposed to deal with, like, hate crimes? As were reading the document—

	LF:	Like is there a protocol?



	BF:	Yeah! And we were reading through that, and now they say were supposed to deal with it different. But when we reading through it, we saying, “We supposed to be getting an education that prepares us to go back to the commonwealth and solve our problems?” If this document was in fruition, I would be able, as a business major, to not only take the general business courses, but I would be learning how to bring up property values in West Philly, and how to change the economic system for the Black people that I represent in Pittsburgh.

	LF:	Because Penn State is a commonwealth university. It’s within the commonwealth.

	BF:	A land grant.





	LF:	A land grant, so it’s required to produce a body of students who are able to directly impact the conditions that are on the ground in the state of Pennsylvania.

	BF:	In research. So they receive state funding to make Pennsylvania better, but all us Black kids who come from the hoods are not in any way learning how to solve our own problems. Going back to Dead Prez, “These schools can’t teach us shit.”

	J:	Right.



	BF:	So, that was the seed that had been planted. And so we’re reading through this, and we’re saying, “Wow! If we had this, we would have a self-determining community.” Now, during this time, Black Studies department was being downsized. And they had just requested like fifty thousand dollars, and got denied.

	LF:	For their annual budget. BF:	They didn’t have paper.

	LF:	They couldn’t make copies for their classrooms.



	BF:	They were being turned into a program; that’s what they do. They were being turned into a program, and it was pitiful. And some of these faculty came to Sankofa, so we knew. We kind of had an idea of what was going on. And so we started strategizing. We was like, “Now, wait a minute. We can use this. We need that, if we want to make some real changes, we need to deal with this.” We decide we’re starting this, so we start having community forums. We have—one night in particular, I remember we had a community forum, we talked about the hate crimes and whatnot, but we talked about the bigger racial issues on campus. And we brought a notary, someone who could notarize. And we had all





the students who could, come and document racial incidents that they experienced at Penn State. Obviously, there was a lot of Black students, but there were White people, like, “My roommate was called a nigger. We were walking home from—”. So we had this forum, and then hundreds of documented accounts of racism. And we just wanted it. And we had a meeting with the president, and some of the other organizations. We had set up a meeting with them so we could talk about solutions, right? So this meeting, I’ll never forget. So we’re all in the Paul Robeson Cultural Center, and all the Black Graduate Student Association president, the Black faculty; we all there, and we all kind of know what’s going on, and we talking about how we going make this plan and whatnot, and we going use this framework to foster diversity, and we going to be strong. We wait in the room, and then Spanier walks in, who’s the president.

Seem like everyone got bamboozled. It was like all of the sudden, we just—we were so strong, and then he walked in, and a lot of us got weak. And he goes into this whole spiel about he’s from South Africa, and his parents left to escape Apartheid. But it was game! Like, he came in there like to say, “I’m with you”, and this and that. And we’re listening to it, and I remember as a staff member being just like, “I feel disrespected.” And Dr. Jones, who was like the head—the vice provost, but he was really the gatekeeper. He was a Black man who had actually got his job out of the [19]88—out of the desegregation mandate. So, their plan for bringing about change and addressing the racism on campus was poster campaign. Like, “Racism, just face it.” They had this plan. And we’re listening to their plan for the campaign, and were all thinking, “Unh-uh, we want this





framework to foster diversity to come to reality.” So he breaks all that down. So then, after they talk, we basically say, “Look, we want to go through the—where will constructive participation in a diverse multicultural world be cultivated if not the academy?” We knew that document. So, we go through and we talk about, “We need to create new curriculum, we need to bring in this, we need to bring in that,” and then the president gets shook. He says, “I can’t do that; you need to talk to the Faculty Senate for that.” And we said, “Well, when can we do that?” We in the meeting, he kind of washes hands of it, he says, “You got to talk to the Faculty Senate.” We find out—

	LF:	The Faculty Senate is the curriculum body, that’s the body of professors and instructors who design Penn State.

	BF:	So we said, “When are they meeting again?” They say, “In December.” We said, “Well, we going to present there.” And he says, “Okay.” The next three months, we’re using Sankofa just to—we start benchmarking all of the schools in the Big Ten. So, if you’re a business major, you’re finding out what programs and classes they have, what they got at Michigan State, at Ohio State; if you’re in political science—it was beautiful, man.

	LF:	How many tenured Black Faculty do they have? How many classes do they have that related to the conditions of race on the ground? It was a complete, comprehensive, school-by-school project.

BF:  And these students were bad! And then, it was great because we had faculty to help, because Sankofa was our bridge! So, we’re having community forums, it’s a lot of momentum coming. I‘m going fast forward. So, December something,





December whatever the date was, comes. And the kids had been working. I mean, they had been working. We had made a plan. We had said, “We’re going to go to the Faculty Senate, we’re going to lay out all the laws they’ve broken according to this desegregation mandate, and we’re going to make them sign this document that says, ‘We admit we’ve broken this law, this law, we’ve failed to meet our initiative, and that you guys are committed to working with us next semester to bring this changes to fruition.’” So, they thought we were just going to have our Black Caucus go, right? We brought Sankofa. So, I’ll never forget it. You went to that one? I’ll never forget it. So, they had the Faculty Senate meeting, and so people come from all over the commonwealth. So, it’s all White, there’s like two or three Black faces, and they spread out because you know they can’t sit together.

	LF:	But it’s a statewide gathering, because Penn State has twenty-one campuses. There’s the main campus, and then there’s the twenty branch campuses. So, representatives from each campus from all over the commonwealth come to this event, because it’s the university-wide curriculum development program.

	BF:	So we come, they’re all in there. We walk in, like, sixty-five deep. Our presenters go to the front, but we circle the whole thing. So they looking at us, and we focused, right? They do an incredible presentation, their benchmarking. It was really impressive. You could tell these kids had put in a lot of work, and they had done their thing. And then they gave them the thing to sign. And then the woman who was the chair, she said, “Well, we can’t sign this today.” It starts to be a little bit of an argument, and the kids upset, “I’ve been waiting five years.” It just





turned into chaos a little bit. It turned into an argument, so they just canceled the meeting.

	LF:	Which is unprecedented. BF:	Right.

	LF:	You don’t have, it takes—



	BF:	Because it meets every, like, months and months.



	LF:	Yeah. It’s like every quarter. And without that meeting there are certain fundamental things that can’t continue to happen at the university. They have to pass measures. So, it was completely unprecedented that you would just disband the meeting without having made any of the decisions that need to get made at that event.

	BF:	They canceled the meeting, and then the students is mad. And it’s chaos. So we meet right outside, and we had a plan B. We said if they don’t sign it, we’re going back to the president, because he told us to go there. In our Saturday school we had learned about how some slave revolts were started by—

	LF:	The talking drum.



	BF:	The brother beating the drum. Yeah! We had planned, I believe it was the night before, Brother Joe was like, “Yo, if they don’t do it, we should just take over Old Main with some drums.” We get outside, we meet with all the kids. We say, “Look, if you don’t want to go to this, we understand, but from this point on it’s about get real.” Some of the kids left. Keisha yells out, “Takeem!” He pulls out the drum. We walk, start stopping traffic. We go to Old Main. I mean, it was like a





rebellion. We walked into that place—and Old Main was like a big plantation house, with all the old White pictures.

	LF:	It’s like the White House. That’s where the president’s office is.



	BF:	Oh, man! I’ll never forget walking in there, and them drums beating! And it was echoing through whole thing, people looking out. We go upstairs. The staff assistant is shook. The president—we saying, “We want to see the president.” She says, “He’s not here.” “Well, we’ll stay.” And we just bogarted in, and cats starts spitting, and it turns into an open mic. People was in there spitting and whatnot. Terrell Jones comes in, and he’s like—

	LF:	The Black vice provost.



	BF:	The Black vice provost come in, “You guys can’t do that! They don’t work like that! They’re not going to do anything. It doesn’t work like that!” I remember Chenits breaking him off. “You think this right in the name of God?” It turns into this big discussion, and we’re not leaving. So, we tell them, “If you want us to leave, you go get all the people that we need—the faculty senate, the president—you bring them in here. At that point, there was a young sister who was in a wheelchair, and we needed to go downstairs to bring her up. So, me and Joe went to bring her up, and I saw my boss. My boss’s boss, the vice president, Mr. Asbury, who was also a mentor. He tells me basically, “We have some news for you tomorrow.” He was basically kind of firing me. At that point, I’m just like, “Whatever.” So, we go back upstairs. We’re praying. We have about sixty students there. Finally, they bring the faculty senate and the president. We have a round table. We have our five leaders sitting at the table, their faculty





senate, and we got our Black community behind it. And I mean, in one voice, our designated speaker—you were there that night. I got pictures of it. Man, that was the last night I was ever a house Negro. That was the last night I was ever—.

And I watched. It turned into a four hour meeting, right? Our kids broke them off and it turned into them going—remember that? They’d go in one room, and we were kind of negotiating if they could sign it, if not. After about four hours of dialogue, while they were messing up, “My son in-law, my daughter in-law, dated a Black guy.” It just turned into a mess. But they end up signing this document, admitting that they failed to meet these initiatives, and that they were going to work with us for the next semester. Then we made them stand up and pray with us. And so we didn’t get out of there ‘til, one, two in the morning. Was it something like that? We got out of there late! So, the next morning we wake up, front page of the paper: “Thank you Black students for teaching us about racism in the community!” Now all of the sudden the kids are heroes. So, I’m not fired. [Laughter] So, the kids are heroes. Christmas break comes. Now we just know, I’ve decided, I’m going to leave my job. I’m not going to be able to stay. But we going get this money to make these changes. We had to ask the Black Studies department, “If you could get anything you wanted to make it what you want, what would it look like?” We had come up with about seven million dollars. We just decided we were going to use—

	LF:	Which the Black Studies Department thought was laughable. Like, they just got denied a fifty thousand dollar annual budget. So, there was no way the dream envisioned was ever going to come to fruition in their mind.





	BF:	See, we had a lot of the students who had had the executive internships. So, we had students who knew they were spending forty million dollars on sprinklers, and knew where the blue money was, and where the red money was. We had representation. We just had a nice group of people they let into the know. So we decided were going to spend the next semester, and were just going to get it. A group of us, a group of the core decided we going to move to D.C. and go teach, we just going to leave after this. But we going go get this money for our community, and we going to create a self-determination plan at Penn State. We come back, they had agreed they’d have weekly meeting with us, with Faculty Senate, so we could talk about the curricular changes that needed to be done.

We called this Gye Nyame, which is that Adinkra symbol. And what we did, we’d have one table where we’d sit with them, and then we invited the community come and sit at the outer table because we wanted the freshmans and sophomores to see that these people who were in charge of our curriculum didn’t know anything. And that we had to direct it. Because we knew we were leaving, and we wanted kind of to pass it on. So, we’d have these conversations about what a culturally relevant curriculum was and whatnot. And I’ll never forget, there was the Faculty Senate chair, this brother named Nichols. And he was the one nice guy, like the one guy who was kind of genuine, saw, “These kids are trying to do something good.” I think he was going to be the chair the next year. And one day, man, we were going, and we were having this discussion, and he turned to Takeem Morgan, and he said, “Explain this to me. I have a huge learning curve when it comes to you.” [Laughter]





	LF:	“Do you have a book list?”



	BF:	“Takeem, do you have a book list?” LF:	Yeah.

	BF:	Oh, man and we used that—



	LF:	That’s important! He’s the chair of the Faculty Senate. BF:	Who’s in charge of our curriculum.

	LF:	So, he is in charge of designing curriculum, and has a “huge learning curve” when it comes to an entire population at the university. And is asking students who eighteen years old—

	BF:	An eighteen-year-old.



	LF:	For a book list. That’s telling! That is really significant!



	BF:	We used that for the rest—! And it was sad, because he was the one the good guy. One day he called me crying, “I was just trying to be—.” I’m like, “What you mean, you crying? We don’t get to learn who we are. You going have a job next year.” But anyway, make a long story short, we’re working with this, to work and do this curriculum; about two months later—the kids are tirelessly. And you know, a lot of students have stopped doing schoolwork to the fullest, and are kind of just getting by, because now we—we’re trying to change the world. My staff, people in my office ain’t even speaking to me, it like, well, everyone is telling me, “You getting too deep with these students.” My church is mad at me. Everybody’s mad. But I’mma leave. About two months into it, we set up a meeting with the president. And we went. Keisha’s sick, everybody’s overworked. We sit down





with the president to talk about there’s a faculty legislative meeting where they go to Harrisburg.

	LF:	Statewide, all representatives and senators.



	BF:	To state what they’re going to get money for. And we know this, so we go to meet with him to make sure he’s allotting money for our plan.

	LF:	This is the budgetary allocation. Penn State has to go present, this is what our budget, what we need from the state. So go in front of the Congress, and you present. And so, should be including in that meeting—

	BF:	You going to tell ’em about your sprinklers. [Laughter]



	LF:	Right, should be including in that conversation money for this project.



	BF:	Our seven million dollars. So we’d go, and we’d been working, and we go to sit down and have this meeting. He comes in and he’s pissed off. Because you can tell he’s had enough: who do you y’all think you are? So we’re sitting at this meeting, we’re talking about the things we need to do, “You know, the meetings coming up, and we’re just making sure that our money is going to be earmarked,” and this and that. And then he looks at us, he says, “Who do you think you are?” He just, like, the thug comes out of him.

	LF:	White supremacy thug.



	BF:	Yeah. That White supremacist, the real thug comes out. And I say, “Well, you signed this document.” And I throw it on the table. And he says, “Who do you think you are? We don’t have money for that.” And our kids, “You spending forty million dollars on some sprinklers?” So, it turned into an argument. Then my boss is like, “Be civil, be civil.” I’ll never forget, Charleen—it’s just everything, it just got





hood. It just turned into, like, “What? Okay.” And then, we said, “You can work with us, or you can work against us. But if you work against us, it’s going get ugly. It’s going get ugly.” And from that point on, we knew that they had no real intentions of giving us that money. So, we leave. We kind of beat down, like, “Wow, we been doing all this work and they’re not even serious.”

	LF:	The idea was to outwait us. Because a lot of people were going to be graduating.



It was a transient population of the university, so if you outwait the trouble makers, it’ll be gone. The next crop, you’ll get them with some incentives, throw some scholarship money at them and divert the entire thing. So, that was their intention the whole time.

	BF:	It was deflating. We went back to the Robe. Keisha was sick. I mean, it was just a terrible time. And we decided, we talked to Momma Price. Momma tells us, “I know those legislators in Harrisburg; you guys need to go out there.” She gives the name of Senator Hughes, and all these people she’d worked with before in [19]88, when they had to go to the legislation. So, she’d been there, she was our Sankofa. Okay. Now we have a Sankofa. We’re talking about going to Harrisburg to get it. And now we’re fighting. Were you at that Sankofa? Where there’s a disagreement? Some people are saying, “You guys shouldn’t go to Harrisburg.” Some of the faculty are like, “If you go to Harrisburg, the little money we’re getting we might not get anymore.” So, for the first time in Sankofa—like, it’s always a debate, but it just, we were split. Hasan, some people thought we shouldn’t go; some of us thought we should. I remember me and Chenits got up and walked out of Sankofa. We were like divided, and some people didn’t want to





go. We ended up going; half of us went. So, we go to Harrisburg, right? We set up a meeting with LeAnna Washington, I think was her name. She was one of the legislators. And they thought we was just going to be these radical, angry kids, which we were. But you know, everybody had they suits on. We had done the work. We had created these packets that outlined all the news articles about what was happening.

	LF:	We had all the notarized, all the incidents of hate that had happened. All the notarized incidents in there.

	BF:	It had all the desegregation mandates they’d broke. LF:	The document they signed in there.

	BF:	Articles from [19]88 that showed the same—I mean, we did our work. We talked about the state of the commonwealth in regards to incarceration, AIDS, poverty; we did the work. We get there—you could tell she didn’t really plan to have a serious meeting. But she sees my kids came in, they was bad. We sat down and they started doing the presentation. About a minute into the presentation, her mouth was like this. She says, “Hold on.” She goes and gets all the Black legislators. We do the presentation. Senator Hughes is looking at the death threat—“Oh, we got the letters too.” Looking at the letters, he says, “Come on.” We walk around this little area, we walk into the congressional room.

	LF:	The congressional room where the meeting was going to be happening.



BF:  And there’s the president. He’s on the stand, talking to the legislators. And we all walk in. You should’ve seen his face! He was like—! And they’re waiting, Senator Hughes is about to start talking. And he’s reading through the book we’ve





created. And you could see him, he’s like [heavy breathing]. And the other people are questioning Spanier about the money he wants for this and for that. And then it gets to Senator Hughes. And he’s just like, “These students came and brought me this book. And I was there in 1988, and da da da da da.” And he reads the death threats. And, man, he just goes in on Spanier. He commends us. It’s on TV. They show it on the news. He commends us. And there’s supposed to be another one the following day. So he invites us to come back the following day.

And basically, they got our back. All the legislators feel like, yeah, they proud of they Black children for doing this. So they meet us outside, we pray. They say, “We going be with y’all, and we going make sure this happens.” So we drive back to state college. All of the students are in the Robe—a lot of people, even the haters, everybody is kind of waiting. We come back, man! That was beautiful. It was just like, came back and it worked, and everybody loved it. I feel like crying right now. They take the packets, they say, “We’re going to distribute these.” They bind them up, they make like a hundred of them of us. Because ours was kind of hood, just all pasted together. They took their resources and put them together. Invited us back for the next day. We had our designated speakers. We all wore black. We went back the next day. They next day we go in, Spanier still up there, but all the legislators are there. And it turns into a sermon, “It’s like the kids is in a burning building! The building is burning, and they saying we need to help!” They go in! And they say, “We’re coming to Penn State to check it out ourselves. And you better make the change, and I want a full report on—.” So, we meet with them, and basically they agree they’re going to come assess the





situation, and they’re going to make the recommendation for us to get that money. So, at this point—we’ve got to move quick. We’re like, “Word. Everything is working.” Now, like everybody is mad at me and my job, but Senator Hughes is like, “Keep doing what you’re doing.” So, I don’t have a boss. Right now, my office is just Sankofa! Right? We going get this stuff signed, we going dip. Okay? So, we working, legislative Black Caucus, about a month later comes to meet with the students, and comes to meet with the Black faculty there. They come to meet with students, we do a PowerPoint presentation, they’re all impressed, right? Then they go to meet with all the Black faculty and staff. Turns into a crazy meeting where all the staff is basically talking about how disempowered they are, and everything goes as good it can go.

	LF:	I just want to point out, it’s interesting because here you have Senator Hughes, and the members of the legislative Black Caucus. So you have Black politicians in power. Here you have Black professors in positions who are tenure track, some non-tenure track, but you have administrators, you have all of these positions where Black people are employed but completely disempowered. And yet, employed in positions of power, but because they didn’t have a Sankofa space, they were not able to bridge that gap between the three of them and make effective change. I just want to again reiterate the importance, because we were talking about this with some the students last night, the importance of having that space. Because that space in of itself becomes an institution that allows for transformative things to take place; in the absence of which, you have Black professors who are whispering to the students about how they don’t have





money to make copies; in the absence of which, you have members of the legislative Black Caucus who don’t have a body to conduct research on the Black population of Pennsylvania, so they can’t even be effective in their policy positioning, because they don’t even have the data to support the fact that they know our communities are suffering.

	BF:	Right. So, this was all part of our seven million dollar plan, a research institute solely for serving the needs of the Black commonwealth. We had all this, and it was all working, they came, they went in on the Vice Provost, the brother who was kind of covering stuff up. And basically, they’re like, “We going do this, okay?” Now, the term as ended, they’re on our side. Everything is good. We’ve done our work, we’ve done our benchmarking. It’s about two weeks before school is over. We going get it signed, they’ve agreed, they going stamp it. We gone dips, everything going dip. We win, we gone, new job. We’re on our way to our—she’s in D.C.; me and one of the students are on way to D.C. to go to our interviews for D.C. Teaching Fellows. Because everything smooth, we got this handled. We get a call—we’re on our way to D.C.: “Keisha go another death threat. This is one is more serious. You guys got to come home.” They say, “They killed somebody.” So, we like, “Woah! What the hell?” We turn around, we pick up another one of our ex-students. We go back to State College, we go back the HUB, people was crying. Apparently, they gave her another letter that says, “We warned you, we going to kill you. We see you all the time on campus. We know where the cameras are hidden. You think those niggers in Harrisburg can help you? Perrish the thought!”





	LF:	The Perrish, right.



	BF:	The “Perrish” was one of the legislators.



	LF:	But no, no, no, point that out, because Perrish was the name of the member of the legislative Black Caucus, and the way you would write the word “perish,” grammatically, it was his name and not the actual—

	BF:	Yeah, no. They knew what they were doing.



	LF:	It was very, very intelligent. This was not a bunch of ragtag, backwoods, White folks.

	BF:	They was like, “We know where the camera are on campus. Forgot your monkey body guards.” Because we had people always scheduled to be with Keisha. So, they knew everything. And they said, “Check the Mt. Nittany; the nigger put up one hell of a fight, but nobody even misses him. We warned you, time’s up. Oh, yeah, P.S. graduation day equals bomb.” So now, it’s all this chaos, okay? So all the students is mad. We come back, and we’re finding out now that there’s no consolidation of the investigation with the football players and our letters. And we’re just seeing all this stuff.

	LF:	Which is huge, because these letters are being sent through the mail. So the FBI was involved. So, if the FBI is not being told about the football players getting it— because this is a public relations nightmare, there’s no way you’re going to be recruited by top teams if Black players find out if they lose, they going to start getting death threats, and their parents who aren’t even in the state of Pennsylvania will also be getting death threats.

	BF:	Sandusky. The stuff that happened; same people.





	LF:	The exact same characters. Gary Schultz, Tim Curley, all of them.



	BF:	The people who got in trouble are the same guy, because he was the one who was in charge of the investigation, he in it. So we’re find out all this, and we say we’re going to go, and there’s a football game the next day, the Blue-White game. “We need to make an announcement, we need to warn the community.” We try. They said they went up in searched Mt. Nittany for like an hour, they said they didn’t find anything, they shut off the investigation.

	LF:	They sent student police officers to search a mountain at night, for less than three hours in the rain and in the dark.

	BF:	Right.



	LF:	And then, they closed the investigation. So, you have these hate letters from these very sophisticated groups, and then you are in a position in where the case is completely shut down. Yes, they said there’s a body; yes, they admitted a murder; “but we’re closing the case.” End of story.

	BF:	Right. So, my students say, “You know what? We’re going to go make an announcement on the football game at halftime.” They say, “No, Joe Paterno’s not going to let you do that.” One of the ex-football players, Joe Dock, he’s like, “We shutting the game down.” So we don’t really know how we going do it, man. But we decide, we going shut this game down. So, make a long story short, we end up getting to the game. It’s a free game. We wear all black, we meet, we don’t know how we going to do it, but were shutting the game down. So, we all end up setting up shop—and I’m talking kind of fast—

	LF:	We have a little bit longer, because it’s 2:30.





	BF:	Okay. So, we end up setting up shop, it’s like about thirty of us, and we’re all sitting behind the goalposts, right? Now, they got a whole line of police officers right in front, because they know we about to do something. They’re following us, but we going do it. We’re all sitting behind the goalpost, and there’s this whole line of police officers. My boss is up about three rows behind. We’re letting the football players know what’s going down. We’re sitting there, but we don’t know how we’re going to get out on the field, because this whole line of officers is there. So we’re praying, and we don’t know what we going do. And then all of the sudden, they say, “Can we all rise for the National Anthem.” And that whole line of officers that’s facing us turn around to look at the flag.

	LF:	It was like parting the Red Sea. [Laughter]



	BF:	It was like God just gave us a alley! [Laughter] We was like, “All right, we’ll die!” We get started, and my wife, we’ve got a picture of her running. We running—

	LF:	Because we were still kind of bullshitting. At that point, it was like, we knew we were going to shut it down, but we didn’t expect them to turn around. Because it was like, why would you turn your back on the people you were there to prevent? And it was completely unexpected. So we were like, “Huh?” Turn around and look. And the song is only so long. So if we going do it, we got to do it. So.

	BF:	Right.



	LF:	I started running. [Laughter]



	BF:	We end up getting to the field. A few students get caught, but we end up making it to the field, and our plan is just we going to lock hands—

	LF:	Fifty yard line.





	BF:	Fifty yard line, lock hands and pray. We get on the field, and we praying, don’t nobody know what’s going on. People start yelling, “Lynch ’em!” The fans is yelling. But then, the Black football players is getting death threats, and they know why we doing it. And Black people was like—so it’s almost like beef in the stands, and football players is kind of stuck, because they with us.

	LF:	Seriously! They not going to lose their scholarship, but emotionally, they was like, “We down.”

	B	Yeah! So, they end up pulling us out. It’s real emotional. They end up breaking it up. They take us. The game ends. Larry Johnson, who’s the star at that time— who was also getting death threats. He doesn’t admit he’s getting death threats, but he gets on there and takes our side: “I understand what the students are doing,” and “da-da-da-da-da,” “You can’t threaten people’s lives.” So now, once again, we’re heroes. So, there was an elder that saw us getting arrested, and his sons had played football, so he was real impressed. He gets his other son to get us a lawyer, and they get us out. Come to find out he’s “Dr. King’s pooper- scooper,” as he described himself. Old Black dude, but he was an old revolutionary. When Dr. King would get people riled up, when Dr. King would leave, people would be getting brutalized, and murdered, and beat. And his organization would come and clean up. It just so happened, man, he saw us. He was rejuvenated. Called his brother from Germany, brought him back, and kind of let us know it was little deeper than we thought it was. So we’re having a press conferences—what’s that?

	D:	Do you remember his name?





	BF:	His name was Stan Hamilton. And I don’t even know—do we want to tell on Stan?

	LF:	No. [Laughter]



	D:	It’s cool. Yeah, you good.



	BF:	Now, we get out of jail. We go back to the Robe, we’re having press conferences, and we’re talking about what’s going on. And now, kind of, the students are heroes. We have a big community forum in the Robe.

	LF:	Oh! And before we had gone on the field— BF:	Oh!

	LF:	Before we ran out onto the field, Penn State’s decision was to have a “No hate at Penn State” rally. They knew we were coming, and they knew we wanted to make this announcement. They didn’t want us to do that, so to compromise and put their spin on it—because Penn State’s very good at cover-up—

	BF:	They were against it, and knew it was going blow up.



	LF:	Right. They invited the entire community to this no hate at Penn State rally. BF:	Were like—

	LF:	We was like—what?! BF:	What?!

	LF:	How come we didn’t know about the rally? We’re the one that been— BF:	It was public relations, they was hustling.

	J:	Yeah.



	LF:	Right.





	BF:	So we already tight, so we get locked up. Then we come out, and we have this press conference. And now the press and the kids is talking and whatnot. So the next day, all of us who get arrested, our names and addresses are in the paper.

	LF:	Not, Joe Blow from Baltimore. BF:	And they don’t that! Man.

	LF:	Joe Blow from 120 Read Street Baltimore, 11235.



	BF:	Nah, Joe Blow on 28th—yeah! So now there are already hate groups after us.



And now there’re people mad at us because we shut down a football game. So, now we can’t go home.

	LF:	Because everyone knows exactly where we live.



	BF:	And our roommates got to move out. And I mean, it’s a crazy situation. Now it’s like—

	LF:	During the time they had done that— BF:	John Johnson had done the research. LF:	Right.

	BF:	And they hadn’t done that since two decades before, with some Latinos. LF:	Who’d gotten arrested.

	BF:	Who got arrested for something in the street, in the community. So now, it’s crazy. We end up having a big community forum. The whole, like a thousand people come. And we do a PowerPoint to talk to them about why we got arrested, and what we’re fighting for.

	LF:	And not just a thousand Black people, a thousand students. So it was, like, White kids, like—





	BF:	And White people was, “Ashay!” [Laughter] So, we do this PowerPoint. The students are heroes now. We explain to the whole community what it is we want, that seven million dollar plan. They all with it, “We will fight with you.”

	LF:	So, you got White kids screaming and hollering for Black Studies. Demanded Black Studies, because we need it!

	BF:	So the guy, the elder that was helping us, he knew Joe Paterno. He was like, “I’m going have Joe Paterno meet with you.” This all happened on a Saturday. We had the forum on Sunday, where we brought everybody and explained specifically why we got arrested and how they need to support us in getting this money, right? For the changes. Monday, Joe Paterno comes to meet with us. He comes to the Robeson, which is unheard of. Joe Parterno don’t got time for—you know, but he wanted to come clean up. So he come, we talk to him, and Joe, the dude who used to play on the football team, he’s trying to, like, bond with him.

And we basically are saying, “Your students, your football players are getting threats. We getting death threats.” And he say, “You don’t think there’s a connection, do you?” And we’re saying we know there is.

	LF:	Especially since you covered it up! BF:	Yeah!

	LF:	You know there’s a connection!



	BF:	He’s acting like he doesn’t know. And he says, “Well I’m going to go talk to my players, and then tomorrow we’ll meet again.” And so we’re telling all the football players—





	LF:	Now, the next day is that rally. So Tuesday is that rally that Penn State planned, No Hate at Penn State.

	BF:	So, we going to the football players, and we like, “Yo, you got to be real; stop frontin’. He knows, da-da-da-da-da.” So, we telling all the football players to man up. The next day, they come back—this is the day of the rally—Joe Paterno comes back to meet with us, and he’s saying, “Well some football players, some of them said—.” He’s acting like he don’t know, and he’s kind of shucking and jiving. And he’s like, “Well, you know, they were given to some of the assistant coaches.” And we’re asking questions. And he’s like, “”Look! Look! Look! Look!” Like the G just came out. He’s like, “I’m not going to do anything to hurt this football program. I’m a football coach.” Which is real significant, because all this stuff going on with Joe Paterno now?

	LF:	Sandusky.



	BF:	We know you just a coach trying win games. You’ll cover up, little boys getting molested. Same way you’ll cover up your student athletes getting death threats and people getting killed. Okay. We go in at him and tell him, “You supposed to be a man!” Words were spoken. We ended up cutting the meeting. He says, “Well, my students, my football players are going to mark with you at the rally.” “We don’t want them to march.” “They’re going to wear their jerseys.” That was his resolve for it. Like, “Thanks.” So, we leave the meeting and we’re looking for Spanier. See, we have a meeting that day before the rally. We’re supposed to have a meeting planned to go in so that they can sign the document for the





money, because finals is next week. We got to get this stuff done now. And all the doors are locked. And they have security in front of the door.

	LF:	No. They have riot security, in riot gear, where we’re supposed to have the meeting.

	BF:	The NAACP elders come and they’d had a meeting with Spanier earlier. We’re like, “How y’all meeting with the NAACP but you ain’t meet with us?”

	LF:	Because we didn’t know about that meeting.



BF:  And the NAACP thinks we’re a little too radical. And they coming in older, they don’t really know what’s going on. They halfway with us, but halfway on some bullshit.

LF:   Yellow jackets. [Laughter]



BF:  Yeah. But these were the elders, these were when the elders came. LF:  Mm.

	BF:	So we’re running around looking for Spanier. We hear he’s in this building. We going around. The rally starting in a couple of hours, but we just want to know why you didn’t meet with us today? He’s leaving, he’s trying to avoid us. We get to the rally—they invite thousands of people to this No Hate at Penn State.

	LF:	The largest rally since the Vietnam protest.



	BF:	Since the Vietnam War. Yeah. So it’s thousands of people. So, we get there with our bullhorn before the university gets there. And basically, we pray, we tell the students we ain’t marching nowhere, it’s disingenuous. We ain’t marching nowhere until they sign this document. They sign this document, we’ll march. No





Hate at Penn State. The president get there, everybody’s there; Nation of Islam is there; everybody’s there.

	LF:	Because by this point, the story about the death threats— BF:	It’s a big story.

	LF:	People all throughout the commonwealth are like what the hell is going on at Penn State?

	BF:	And ESPN got ahold of us shutting down the football game. LF:	Right.

	BF:	So now, the investigation is back open.



	LF:	Right. They reopened the investigation to this body, right? Because up until that point, the investigation had been closed. After the arrests and it was on TV, then all of the sudden, “We’re looking into it.”

	BF:	The president comes, he gives his bullshit speech. And kids is yelling. Then they get the Black pastors on their side to come and do some Dr. King stuff—and you’ll see this on the tape: as he’s doing his speech—you know, we do this communal affirmation. The Gil Scott-Heron. We end up shutting him down. We get everybody, “Now! Now!” We just shut him down. And Keisha grabs the mic, and she just starts screaming, “My Life!—” You’ll see all this on tape. She basically starts saying, “Graham Spanier, why are you walking? Why do you value this institution more than my life?” He walks away. And that was what CNN had got ahold of. That was kind of what the nation had seen, that scene particularly. So, the whole students see Graham Spanier running from this girl.

And she’s saying, “Graham Spanier, I’m talking to you! Why is it that you put the





image of this institution over my life? Do you know—?” So now the students won’t go. They’re like, “We will stay!” Now, in the back, were negotiating, it’s all kinds of stuff going on, and we’re arguing about, like, “They need to sign the document.” You back there, because you on the tapes, too!

	LF:	[Laughter]



	BF:	And it’s like, in the back, we going through it. And all the kids in there. And we’re there for like a hour; they ordered pizzas. And then, a couple hours pass. We don’t really know what we’re going to do, but it starts getting cold. So now, we’re like, “Damn!” So the Nation of Islam, Minister Angelo, negotiates with the president, this Jewish man.

	LF:	That was great.



BF:  Which is interesting. [Laughter] They set it up, they want us to rotate to the HUB, the cultural center. Really, they wanted to get us away from Old Main. But it was getting cold, and we couldn’t maintain our support.

LF:   And they weren’t going to let us in the building, so—



BF:  So we were like, “Okay, we’ll go to the Robe and negotiate.” So all the students come. It’s like, thousands. And the Robe is a big thing. So, they all come in the Robe, but within the Robe there’s like the Paul Robeson Suite.

	LF:	That was in the HUB, the HUB is a big thing. And within the HUB it’s Robeson Cultural Center.

	BF:	And then, there’s a space like this within it. So, we end up having our negotiations. And it’s all of them, and all of our main people. And all the students are outside waiting on in the bigger HUB. And basically, we ask for the money.





They say they can’t do it. It goes down. They say no. Keisha starts crying and says, “I’m going on a hunger strike!” So, we go back out to the bigger group and we say—Keisha says, “I’m not leaving. I’m not eating until they sign it. They won’t sign it.” The administration leaves. All the students say, “We will stay.” So, they all go get they backpacks. It was like, hundreds, maybe thousands of students, they stay. We decide we going take over this building ‘til they sign it. Okay? So, that’s when the village starts, coined by our sister Dr. Assata Richards, now. This turns into a village, now we do the communal affirmation every hour, on the hour, twenty four hours a day.

	LF:	You got Black kids, White kids. BF:	Black, White, we—.

	LF:	Twenty-four times a day screaming out Gil Scott-Heron’s poem. [Laughter]



	BF:	Aw, man! You got African dance going on. You got a bunch of White kids, [Sings] “Sitting on the corner, watching all the girls go by”—I mean, you have every, you have a free buffet, because the White kids went out and got sponsorship from all the restaurants. So, you can get Red Lobster, Taco Bell, anything from—.

	LF:	And the press by this point had been so positive that you had corporations within the town who were like, “Give the kids some pizzas! We’re going to bring you some food!” I mean they brought everything we needed. We had a group that was working on media, we had a website—

	BF:	But we were on a hunger strike.



	LF:	Yeah, I was on a hunger strike. We had a website set up; like, they had everything.





	BF:	It was beautiful, man.



	LF:	It became a self-contained community. It was real good glimpse as to what the possibilities could be if people could leave the BS outside.

	BF:	And now that they’re having this genuine racial dialogue—and you’ll see this when you look at the video—it just turns into this beautiful thing. Okay, that’s in the bigger HUB. But inside of the smaller HUB, we’re scared to death.

	LF:	The Paul Robeson Center.



	BF:	Keisha’s got the bulletproof vest on. That’s when we’re doing the research and finding out that the Patriot—you know, we’re finding out now. Kids are coming to us. We’re finding out kids have had murder collages slipped under their door. All these things are signed, “The Patriot”. And administration have told this kid, “Don’t come to us.” And we find out, we go do some searches. We find out the Patriot is a hate group that lives right up the way, and that rally—so now, we’re kind of spooked.

	LF:	And then, this is at the point where we realize, the Klan, hate groups, anti-Black minority groups, are not trailer trash-type folks. And I mean that in the most respectful way one can say “trailer trash.” But they were police officers. They were nurses—

	BF:	There was a sheriff’s convention going on our campus.



	LF:	A sheriff’s convention. And you saw tattoos that indicated racial hate group affiliations on the arms of—

	BF:	One of our White kids telling us.





	LF:	Yeah. He was like, “Dude, that group right there, those tattoos on those sheriffs who are having a convention in this institution—?”

	BF:	So now were like, “Whoa.”



	LF:	So we realize that these hate groups are an integral part of the fabric of this community, outside the “We are Penn State,” Happy Valley persona.

	BF:	Right. So we peeping them. We’re doing this kind of kumbaya, we’re going back and forth with negotiations. Every day, there’s new negotiations. BET is there, CNN is there. And it’s kinda kumbaya student activism. And we’re going back and forth. Students have protested the president’s house. Like, you got a whole group of White kids who have taken over his house. I mean, it turns into this beautiful thing. They’re all fighting for Black Studies—they don’t know. They just rolling with the energy. But they will follow us, because we’re their spiritual—

	LF:	We got to wrap.



	BF:	Okay. But you know, liaison. It’s going back and forth, maybe for three, four days.



It’s beautiful, kumbaya. We’re doing BET interviews, all that. We’re doing an interview over, like, the sticking points. Because they want to give us this, but we want all of it. But we’re going back and forth. So, we’re doing a press conference, and then the newscaster says, “We got to go.” They got a call. But they said, “Watch the news, you got to watch the news tonight.” So they leave, and we all gather everybody together to watch the news on the big screen. They find a body. They find the body of a Black man murdered, execution-style.

	LF:	Hadn’t had a Black male homicide in almost— BF:	Three decades.





	LF:	Four decades, in that area.



	BF:	Yeah. But it wasn’t at Mount Nittany. It was on the side of a road by a truck stop, but it had been moved.

	LF:	Where the body was found, was not were the person had been shot.



	BF:	Yeah. It goes from student activism, kumbaya village, to chaos. To people leaving campus—

	LF:	Instantly.



	BF:	—to come to us. Because everybody spooked now. I remember people throwing up. I remember just crying.

	LF:	You had people who hadn’t been involved in any of it, who were so freaked by all of that, people just start pouring into the HUB, because they’re like, “What the hell?” There an admitted murderer on the loose, a body is found, and nobody knows what the hell is going on.

	BF:	Now it’s a whole ‘nother thing going on. Now we like, “What in the hell is happening?”

	LF:	And that’s when we find out from Stan—this is when other folks come in—and basically, we find out that they had been watching. They had to set up a system where they could watch the people who were watching us.

	BF:	Yeah, they were older than us.



	LF:	Because the police officers who were protecting the building, were the same officers who arrested us, right? So it was a real schizophrenic, crazy set up.





	BF:	It was crazy. And they were letting us know, “Y’all don’t know what’s going on right now.” Because at the time, we didn’t fully realize that we weren’t just fighting Penn State. We were fighting Pepsi, Nike, Aerospace—NASA.

	LF:	Penn State is one gigantic, corporate contract.



	BF:	Yeah, it’s a corporate entity. So there were all these people with these different interests, and you putting this stuff out. That’s why this Sandusky stuff is so deep. Because it’s big. Yeah, Governor Ridge.

	LF:	And you can’t go around messing up those White people’s money without them getting upset.

	BF:	Right? Right? So now, it’s deeper than we thought it was going to be, and now they got blood on their hands because they covered this up. And now this Black man gets murdered. So it’s very similar to what we know with the Sandusky stuff, because if you’d’ve did what you were supposed to do, it wouldn’t’ve never got to this point.

	J:	Mmhm.



BF:  And I don’t even know where to go from there, man. It gets chaotic. LF:  There was one night where some officers come to do a head count. BF:  Yeah.

	LF:	And we’re—in the middle of the night. BF:	Remember that?

	LF:	It’s like two, it’s like, late-late-late, and they come and do a head count. So the elders who were there protecting us, whose name I’m not going to say again—

	J:	Mmhm.





	LF:	Have brothers coming in, “Change your clothes. Put his hat on. Take his shirt off, and go out and filter around, and screw up the numbers.” Because we’re like, “What are you doing a head count for in the middle of the night? Why are you officers, who were a part of this organization, why are you trying to find out how many people are—” Oh, damn. Time. So, basically, but that’s when we realized, this is not student activism. This has moved past student activism to a space that none of us really had any experience before.

	BF:	So, just kind of to summarize it: the body gets found. CNN, BET, everybody dips. It’s like somebody made a call. The Attorney General Mike Fisher comes in, we find out they want to meet with us. We’re still naïve, we’re thinking, “They want to meet with us, to talk and”—we’re like, “We got the government! We got all this proof!” First of all—

	LF:	Not realizing the Attorney General is the lawyer for the institution.



	BF:	Yeah. So what we do, the day after the body was found, they put out this letter of eleven reasons why it’s not connected to the letter. So, they’re saying, “Yeah, he had tattoos.” First of all, they say it’s, “Black man found murdered.” Then, the next newscast says they can’t tell the race of the—

	LF:	But they could tell you the tattoos they had.



	BF:	Tattoos, but they can’t tell the race of the person. Then we go to get the transcript of the first news, and they can’t find it.

	LF:	And to this day, you can’t get the transcript of that newscast.



	BF:	So they moved the body from there to Altoona, they going through all this craziness with body. Really, they’re trying to decide, “How we can clean this up?”





The next day, they put that information out. Make a long story short, they end up just giving us the money. They realize, “Let’s cut our losses.” They sign the document. Everybody is happy and chanting and whatnot.

	LF:	Made them chant with us, that was fun. [Laughter]



	BF:	Yeah, we do the “Now more than ever,” whatever, whatever, we got the money.



But, now what we supposed to do? We can’t go home.



	LF:	Because our addresses are still out there. BF:	Yeah.

	LF:	And people already dying, so we definitely can’t go home.



	BF:	Yeah. And that was kind of bittersweet. Yeah, we got this, but y’all just covered up a murder! So now, it’s real crazy. We can’t go home. Uncle Stan sets up to where we can go kind of hide out in some churches.

	LF:	But we couldn’t do the Black churches.



	BF:	Couldn’t go to Black churches. But some White pastors let us stay. LF:	The Quakers.

	BF:	Remember how we had to lay down, and they getting us—I mean, it’s like Mississippi 1920, brother! We hiding out scared to death! A part of us is like, are we tripping? So, a couple days we spend like, that because we’re waiting on student to be able to go home, because a lot of our students can’t go home for different reasons.

	LF:	Graduation, it’s finals week.



	BF:	We’re trying to get out of town. We’re fighting with each other, because everybody’s scared. And it’s just chaos, man. One of our sisters call the Black





Panther Party. They want to come meet with us, because Malik Shabazz is an attorney, and we want to sue them. So we meet, go back to the HUB to meet with them. By the time we go to meet with the Black Panther Party, we find out they came and had a press conference without letting us know. And in the press conference, they held guns and bullets.

	LF:	Shotgun bullets.



	BF:	And told them, told the city, that if they heard that anybody got hurt, they was going to shoot up everybody. But we was trying to get out of town. We ended up getting into it with the Panthers, and it gets crazy.

	LF:	Because they’d also gone to Walmart, in full regalia. BF:	No, they didn’t. Not yet.

	LF:	Was that the next day?



BF:  That night, we end up making peace. We end up staying the night with them, a smaller group of us. We wake up in the morning, they’re gone. We didn’t know this at the time, but they go to Walmart and bought all the ammunition.

LF:   In full regalia.



BF:  Now, I understand it, and I actually respect it. At the time, I was scared to death.



	But they were trying to let that college know— JD:	Intimidation.

	BF:	“We will shoot everybody in this place.” Looking back, they was like, “Look, we saw that little girl with a bulletproof vest on CNN, and we came here ready to die.” I get it now. At the time, we were scared. So, make a long story short, we





end up getting the group of people who can’t leave into some on-campus housing. They had set some stuff up. So, we left town, literally—

	LF:	Under armed guard.



	BF:	With Black Panthers, guns, stopping traffic; we got out of town. LF:	Got to Pittsburgh.

	BF:	Got to Pittsburgh. September 14th, we had a national rally planned. We were going to break all this stuff down. We had Sharpton, Jessie, Sonia Sanchez, Na’im Akhbar, Jeff—we had everybody. And this was going to be the new Civil Rights Movement, because we had all these young people who could articulate it so clearly; you had the overt racism with hate groups; then you had the covert racism with the institution that covered it all up. We was going to break down everything happening in America through this story.

	LF:	It was scheduled for September 14th, 2001.



	BF:	September 11th happened, I think, on that Tuesday. LF:	Yeah.

	BF:	And all our support, everybody just—. LF:	Gone.

	BF:	Gone.



	LF:	Because nobody could be anti-anything America at that point.



BF:  So it just got crazy. So to make matters worse, Governor Ridge, who was on the Board of Trustees that covered it all up, is now Homeland Security. While we got terrorized. We created the most progressive “Black Diversity Plan” of the time.

We brought in probably over like fifteen new Black faculty.





	LF:	No. It’s forty Black faculty that next year that they brought in as a result of the demands, in addition to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania’s first Africana Research institute.

	BF:	That we couldn’t get a grant from the next year. That’s a whole ‘nother issue. [Laughter] We brought in mandatory race classes—all this stuff that we wanted, man, we got it passed. We moved to Pittsburgh and took the model that we had, Sankofa, and implemented.

	LF:	Formalized it into a nonprofit.



	BF:	Turned it into a nonprofit. That was our story. LF:	Been having Sankofas ever since.

	BF:	We’ve been having Sankofas ever since. The institution, our Black people fought over who was going to be over control of all that power because they’d never had it. The university ends up putting someone in charge that they can control. A lot of good things came out of it. A lot of our students that were about it kind of got co-opted—you know, kind of assimilated into the dominate culture, as time—but some of them stayed strong. I think there was another year or two that they was still a strong presence, but you go back now, they have a whole area dedicated to it. But they turned it into their victory. And the conditions are the same.

	LF:	How the university decided to confront racism.



	BF:	Yeah. So it’s bittersweet just in that. Yeah, it was the most liberating event of a lot of our lives, and even to come back here and see Dr. Johnson doing what he’s doing, I know that has everything to do with our experience. The work we do now. We have grassroots organizations, we’re educators, and even in her law





practice. Everything we do now is centered around that experience. But up until this stuff that happened with Jerry Sandusky, for a lot of us that went through this Penn State stuff, it almost kind of brought back—because we never had resolve.

	LF:	It was so traumatic. BF:	It was traumatic.

	LF:	A lot of us ended up kind of screwed up behind it. BF:	Some drug issues.

	LF:	Yeah. And you kind of can see what happened with the Panthers. You can see how a group of people who were so powerful and had so much potential could be completely co-opted, and just lives devastated afterwards.

	BF:	We just didn’t have the healing. And we were angry. It got to a point—when you’re in it you don’t realize it: our families were worried about us. I couldn’t even disagree with people on racial issues—because I’m a nice guy. But I’d have a disagreement with someone about race, we ready to knock your ass out. I remember getting to Pittsburgh, and people seeing us talk, and they’d be like— we’d get caught up in conversations, and our energy would be like this, and people’d be like, “What in the hell?”

	LF:	Yeah.



	BF:	But we had been through so much, that we were just—aw, man! LF:	And there are people till this day that still haven’t—

	BF:	Still haven’t recovered.



	LF:	Still haven’t recovered. It’s—





	BF:	So, when the Sandusky stuff happened it was really interesting, because even though, obviously, you never want anything like that to happen to kids; but for us, it was just to see that finally they got caught. Because the world doesn’t know about what happened to us. And to see all the people? Schultz—

	LF:	Gary Schultz, Tim Curley. BF:	Tim Curley.

	LF:	All of them.



	BF:	Paterno. Them was the people. Those were the people. LF:	They are professional cover-uppers.

	BF:	A lot of us reconnected, and it was just kind of was therapeutic in a sense. Because our families, a lot of people didn’t understand how we changed so much.

	LF:	And a lot of people thought we were crazy.



	BF:	My family: “You had so many White friends. You’re such a—” LF:	Right.

	BF:	“Well, why are you so angry now?” But people didn’t understand.



	LF:	And a lot of people thought we were crazy, or just overly-Black. And it wasn’t until they saw how intricate the cover up was with these child molestation issues. It was almost like, in a way some, vindication.

	BF:	Some validation.



	LF:	And people could finally be like, “Remember when you were at Penn State?” Yeah, no kidding. Of course I remember. But you could see, even on Facebook posts, “Wow, I remember you telling me about all the stuff happening before.





What was that, again?” And, “I can’t believe it, are these the same people?” And so you realize, now, through this exposure with that, it almost opens the door in some ways for a lot people for healing, because people thought we were crazy.

	BF:	For me. Man. I smiled. And people thought I was crazy—because, I mean, why would you be happy with that? And I wasn’t happy, obviously, that this happened to these kids. But for me, my whole career changed. I went from being this guy who was going to be in higher education who had my dream job, who had my dream situation, to the next year, at one point being homeless and living out my Jeep. You know what I mean? Like, I literally went from like top house Negro to the back of the field. And as liberating as it was it was, it was just, it was like you have this American dream, so to speak, and then all the sudden it just crashes, man. And we were back in the hood, working with our people, dedicated. Then we couldn’t even get money. So we’re working forty hours a week running programs for our kids taking that model, but I couldn’t buy a sandwich. Because people wouldn’t pay us for it. But we were committed. And then we tried to get a grant from the research institute that we’d created and gave our lives for, and got denied. Even though we were in Pittsburgh.

	LF:	Because we weren’t about this puppet of the institution.



	BF:	Yeah. A lot of us, if you talk to us now—that’s why it’s such a blessing to be here now—a lot of us have went on. I think the real victory isn’t even the research institute and all that, although that’s important. The real victory is some of the work that a lot of us have made it our life work. Now, we do Sankofas in the hood. I live in Brooklyn. We do it at NYU. We do it at Bed-Stuy. We do it. We





have a model that has been, I would say, perfected. It’s a community mobilization model. It’s a support group. It’s a educational tool. And I’m a teacher now. And even as a teacher, after coming through that experience, I can go to Riker’s Island, I can go to the hood, I can go to anywhere and build with my people. So, the experience I’ve had has really been a catalyst to, I guess, a life of activism, and a life of community work.

	D:	I’ve got plenty of questions I could ask y’all; I know you’re running. BF:	I’ve got twelve minutes.

	JD:	You got twelve minutes? BF:	Yeah.

	D:	All right. So Pennsylvania in general is known for that whole cover up with Mumia, and the MOVE organization, and all that stuff.

	LF:	Mmhm.



	JD:	But I know with that also comes the building of these sort of covert groups; you said Momma Price was a major influence with you all. So I was wondering, what were these kind of underground networks that you guys got involved in, or that came out and showed support with you that people may not necessarily know about?

	BF:	Well, I remember MOVE came. LF:	Yeah.

	BF:	In the midst of all, before it jumped off, but you know. When we had Sankofa, we were building a proactive community. So, I remember MOVE came, and a lot of





us had learned about that. Because now we had money to bring people in. I remember Na’im Akhbar came, and Jeff Johnson came.

	LF:	And being tied to—because when the Nation of Islam came, that caused some schism. Because the Nation don’t involve itself in non-nation business.

	BF:	Bow ties.



	LF:	You had some bow tie-wearing brothers with slick hair. BF:	Training the Alpha’s to protect the Robe.

	LF:	They trained them on how to do protection. So you had—in fact, one of the provosts was an Alpha. One of the provosts who was kind of the gatekeeper was Alpha. So, he comes to the Robe one day, and the Alphas don’t let him in. They say, “We want to see your ID.”

	BF:	That was in the building. LF:	He’s like, “It’s me!”

	BF:	We was like, “Nope!” LF:	They were like, “No.”

	BF:	“Are you on this list? You ain’t on this list!” [Laughter]



	LF:	“The Nation of Islam said no one gets in.” So you really saw this collaborative space that you don’t really get to see.

	BF:	You saw alumni from [19]88 came back. LF:	Kevin Parker.

	BF:	Kevin Parker.



	LF:	Who’s now a senator in New York.



	BF:	He’s one of our boys in Brooklyn. He came with a bat.





	LF:	He came ready to— [Laughter]



	BF:	In the name of freedom, he came. So, it brought all these alumni back. It connected us with BAMN, By Any Means Necessary, which was that organization out of Michigan.

	LF:	Fighting for affirmative action. We ended up doing tours, going to different colleges.

	BF:	Lecturing with the socialists. For us, it tied us—I met Cornell West. He called while we were going through it. But it tied us to the activist community.

	LF:	Sharpton’s people were out there. BF:	Sharpton’s people.

	LF:	People just descended on the campus in a way that—because, again, we had that space, they were able to be affective. It wasn’t just the NAACP versus this, versus that. They were able to collaborate on something that was bigger than them.

	BF:	And brother, it started with a small group of people. Some of us barely even knew we was even African before it had started. And that small of people, and it turned into some—from the outside, people thought we was these crazy freedom fighters who had had years in the struggle. And it wasn’t like that. It was a small group of people that started learning together, started trusting each other, praying together. And within a year and a half, we was making big moves.

	D:	Yeah. Definitely. So what were the demographics like when you all were there?



What was the racial breakdown?



	BF:	Three percent? Three or four percent Black?





	LF:	Yeah. It was no more than ten or eleven percent of “minorities” at Penn State.



So, of the ten percent of people of color, we were about three-point-five percent, maybe?

	BF:	Yeah.



	D:	Most of them from Philly, or—? LF:	Philly. Pittsburgh. Lot of New York.

	BF:	Philly. Pittsburgh. Little bit of New York. Lot of New York. BF:	Yeah.

	LF:	Yeah.



	BF:	For the most part, the Black community, yeah. But you know, then you had your brothers from the continent, and the Caribbean. And one of the great things was, man, we kind of bridged that gap. Sankofa bridged a lot of those divisions. Every school has those divisions: Black, the Caribbean. And one of things we learned is all these divisions are scripted by our historical oppressor, and if we can close the door and pour libation, go back to our source, we come from the same tree.

	D:	Right. So you all got this organization set up in Brooklyn now? BF:	Mmhm. Brooklyn. Philadelphia.

	LF:	Brooklyn. Philadelphia. And we have a— BF:	Pittsburgh site, sort of.

	D:	And you work mostly with gradeschool kids, now? Or is it—? BF:	Our Saturday school is middle school kids.

	LF:	Is the African-centered Saturday school.





	BF:	African-centered Saturday school, middle school kids. I teach high school. Our art program—we do our programs on college campuses. And then, we do them now in the community. For a while, we were Pitt, Temple real big, NYU.

	LF:	Penn State.



	BF:	That was kind of our base, but as we’ve gotten older, we took the model to the community.

	LF:	And that was really because we saw, like, student activism plays a very special role in social movements. But what we realized is that—well, one, aside from the fact that ninety percent of our people ain’t going to college. But there’s still, once you have that space, the demographics aren’t as important.

	BF:	Transcendent.



	LF:	It transcends that. So doing Sankofas in the community is oftentimes more powerful than doing it on a campus.

	BF:	Because we got class issues, we got on our block—I mean, the model is such that when you get around the table and you bring the ancestors in, and you really start to deal with these issues that impact us all, we’re all connected.

	LF:	Because I mean, even when I was—I was at NYU for law school, and we had it there.

	BF:	But we brought the community to NYU. Right? [Laughter]



	LF:	Right. But you saw the same thing on the NYU Black professors. I mean, you had some bougie Black people. You saw the same thing. That’s one of the things we like to focus on when we talk about this with the students. Because every





school we go to, they think, “Oh, well, this university, there’s too many separations.”

	BF:	Difference, how they don’t care.



	LF:	“We don’t have those types of students here like y’all did at Penn State.” What we have to let them know is, we were just like that. The Kappas and the Ques had been fighting for years over a broken cane on the step show. There was always fights. Our parties was the only ones that needed metal detectors because people would always start fighting.

	BF:	It was the microcosm.



	LF:	It’s everywhere. It’s the same dynamic.



	BF:	And on my block where we live, in Bed-Stuy, it’s Black middle class, upper class, and the hood, all in the same area. We’re in Bed-Stuy. But literally, on our block you got the home owners who think they’re too good for the projects. So, we’ve been able to have forums that bring all those participants together, kids on the block. Man, if we could just get us all in the same room, and if we can just bring those ancestors in there, and have some structured experience? And that’s what lacking. And that’s what every other healthy community has through institutions. With us, Sean Bell gets killed, we rally, we protest, but then we don’t go back anywhere! And it’s easier on a college campus, because you have places like this. You have cultural centers, you have places that can kind of facilitate that.

But one of the challenges now, in the real world, now that we leave this college campus: we don’t have institutions.

	D:	Right.





	BF:	So we stay in a state of being reactive. LF:	Perpetually.

	BF:	Yeah. So one of the goals with Sankofa Community Empowerment, the organization, in addition to creating these community forums and models, is to ultimately create what the Jewish community has with cultural institutions, with schools, with really taking Kwanzaa.

	LF:	And the Jewish community is a real example. For the sake of time, but, some of my Jewish friends have been in Hebrew school from the time they were in kindergarten. And every day after school or every weekend, whatever your Jewish community can do, you go to Hebrew school after school.

	BF:	Seders.



	LF:	You go to Seders. You learn your history. You learn your language, you learn your challenges. You learn whatever it is you need to learn so that when you grow up—

	BF:	Never forget.



	LF:	—and become a banker, you know how to become a banker for your community’s needs. So, you are well-versed in the challenges of your own community, growing up. So by the time you’re in college, you have purpose and you have a direction that’s directly related to improving the capacity of your own people. We want that for us.

	BF:	We want to be cultural architects.



	LF:	And a lot of people like, “It’s not right.” I think its fine. Have your Hebrew school because I want Africa school. Like I want that for our people, because that’s





where power is built. That’s where power is nurtured, and is allowed to grow, and is allowed to manifest, and we don’t have that. And a lot of us are too ashamed to do it. We don’t want Africa school. We want multiculturalism. Because we’re, one, ashamed of slavery, we’re really shamed of Africa. We don’t want to be to closely related to it, and we can—

	BF:	We want escape.



	LF:	Right.



	BF:	We want to escape our caste. We don’t want to be African. There’s so much shame associated with it, that anything we can do to run away from that—. Marcus Garvey said people without knowledge of history are like trees with no roots. Period. And it’s that simple. And even that model, being able to have this Sankofa analysis, I work with seventeen to twenty-one year old kids who are at- risk, Bloods, Crips, all that. But they’re all one conversation away from seeing the whole world differently. One conversation away. And you can usually wake them up with one conversation, and that’s great, but if you can also provide them a network—and see, we’ve seen those students that we’ve been able to pull in the network, man, they go on to—. Lot of them get the seed planted and they know, and sometimes that’s not enough. Maybe for now, but we’ve got to be able to plant that seed and create networks and community that can sustain. That’s our life work now. That’s why we here today. That’s why we came here for the weekend.

	D:	Definitely. That’s powerful. I’m sure that student leadership conference is going to create a whole new atmosphere on campus.





	BF:	Yeah.



	D:	Just judging by the way the reactions been so far. I just came back yesterday, and I heard positive things already, so.

	BF:	I hope so.



	LF:	Yes.



	D:	Well again, I thank y’all for coming out. BF:	Thank you, brother.

	D:	Oh. Thank you. [End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Juliette Barbera, September 5, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, March 15, 2018

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019