AAHP 293; Jackson; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 293 Antoinette Jackson African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant on February 16, 2013 59 minutes | 29 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 293

Interviewee: Antoinette Jackson Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant Date: February 16, 2013



	D:	This is Justin Dunnavant here with Mia Carey and Dr. Antoinette Jackson. We're at the University of South Florida campus and today is February 16th. The time is around 11:05. We're just talking a little today about Dr. Jackson's recent book, Speaking for the Enslaved, as well as some of her research that she's been working on and some background experiences. So I know you did an interview last week with Ayana Flewellen and she touched on a lot of things, a lot of background information, but I wanted to go a little bit further back.

	J:	Okay, oh boy. [Laughter] Okay, uh-oh.



	D:	Because I know a lot times we ask about parents, but we don't ask about grandparents.

	J:	Right, right okay that's true.



	D:	And I know they tend to have a lot of influence as to what it is that we do. So I was just wondering, could you tell me a little about your grandparents, if they had any influence on your raising?

	J:	Oh yeah. I just want to start to say that my parents were Mercedes Jackson, Mercedes Grimes-Jackson. My father is Jesse Jackson. And they were both born in Louisiana. My mom was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. My father was born in Independence, Louisiana, and so that has been a huge influence—New Orleans and Independence, Louisiana and all that—has been a huge influence on my growing up and my shaping my way I think. And so yes, my grandparents played a big role in my life because in the summers my parents—we were living in Washington, D.C. at the time—my parents used to take us—my brothers I had





one brother and two sisters—and we used to spend our whole summers down in Louisiana. Half of the time we would spend in New Orleans, where my mom's parents, grandparents, Daisy Grimes and Leonard Grimes lived, and then we'd spend the other half in Independence, Louisiana where my grandfather, Jesse Jackson Sr. and my grandmother, Orlee Booker-Jackson lived. And my grandfather had a farm, so for us coming from the city, being on his farm was a huge deal. He was primarily a strawberry farmer and he grew sweet potatoes, corn, everything, and he had cows. And so we had to do complete farm work when we were there, and he was also, they were very heavily influenced by the church. And so between church and farming that was what we did. So the rigor of my grandfather was very rigorous in terms of hard work, getting up at a certain time, having deliverables. [Laughter] We used to say, we wanted to go to the store he always would fool us and say he would go to the store, but anything we ever wanted we could get on the farm. So we said, “We want to buy something.” He wasn’t into that, so we pretty much were self-sufficient in doing a lot of things on the farm so it was a huge influence. And my grandmother was Eastern Star and my grandfather was a Mason. So it was also that ritual of leadership and spirituality and civic responsibility that we also witnessed by spending our summers with them. And my grandparents in New Orleans was another thing because they were in the city. They were also—my grandmother was very religious and my grandfather on my mom's side was a preacher—and so the same kind of religious rigor and discipline in that regard, they were into. And my grandmother was a very good cook and did cooking for major hotels in New





Orleans and things like that, so she was a domestic. And so just seeing the handwork of both sets of grandparents and that influence on my parents was something that gave us a solid base. Yeah grandparents were a huge part of growing up. So thank you for asking about them.

	D:	Oh no, yeah. Yeah definitely. Do you know how they got to Louisiana?



	J:	Well on my mom's side, I haven't traced—and that’s where they get on me because they know I do all this genealogy for other people and other areas and they're like, “When are you gonna?” I haven’t spent a whole lot of time tracing our roots back, but I know as far as I can recall, or know of, on my mom's side they were sharecroppers from Woodville, Mississippi. And I remember one year my sister and I made a trip back along the route my mother would say when she was young, she used to spend her summers in Woodville, Mississippi. And so we drove from New Orleans to Woodville one day and experienced those large, it was a Woodville—my grandfather was a sharecropper on a plantation where I suppose his family at one point worked. And so just seeing those huge cotton plantations it was quite for me, I was looking at rice plantations so to see the cotton plantations were very a stark contrast. As all those plantation they were huge but with those cotton plantations, there’s just nothing but land and no trees and it’s just like hot. It was just amazing the amount of acreage. And so going to visit Woodville, even though the people weren't still working or doing anything on plantations, just to see the size and scope of the amount of things that people would have had to do to live on those plantations and survive was amazing. And so it was a very big influence to take that journey back the way my mom looking





at all things that she would mention, the places and the people. And seeing those names was quite, it impressed upon me a lot of different emotions really. And then my grandfather on my father's side, they, as far as the records, they had always been landowners, one of the few Black families that were really actually landowners in that area of Louisiana; Independence, Louisiana. And as far back as the records show, I hadn't really traced them to being enslaved on any particular plantation. It was always that they were large landowners in that part of Louisiana. And I know that one of my uncles was doing genealogy on that part of the family and he hadn't come across any direct connections to slavery, and I think he even had tracing some people to South Carolina, but nothing definitive. I know people always ask me if we're from the islands or something like that on my father's side. So I'm uncertain as to that, but they had three, four, five, six generations been in that area of Louisiana; Independence, Louisiana.

	D:	Alright, so I guess coming a little bit closer into time, I remember in the interview with Ayana you mentioned that your transition into anthropology was more of a transition, a continuation, as opposed to a stark switch. Because you started out in business and computer science and then later came back to school to do anthropology. So I was wondering what was it that led you into anthropology and cultural anthropology specifically, as opposed to biological or archaeology?

	J:	When I was thinking more about that interview and I always say that yeah it was a transition for me because I was—as I had mentioned—I was always interested in people and culture and writing. I was a writer by heart I guess I’d say. And so that part was always appealing to me. I write poetry and prose and all those other





things. And so being able to tell a story about people was not something that was unfamiliar, that's something I would do anyways. And so the transition into computer science was more a practical kind of a thing at first, because my father was a chemical engineer and a research chemist. So I was always influenced by that science side. And my mother did geriatric nursing and geriatric recreation, and she did things with people, engaging with people. So I mean I always had those two aspects, but when I decided to go for a career, I was going to do journalism or something like that and my parents were like, “Well you need to do something that you probably could make a living at.” Because they couldn't conceive of journalism being able to, as they say, “Live in the lifestyle that I was accustomed to.” They would tease me, but anyway I decided I did start out in chem engineering, but I realized that I didn't want to be locked in the lab.

Although I liked visiting my father's lab, I just didn't foresee being locked in the lab for that long, for a whole career like that. But I had a science and engineering scholarship from Gulf Oil, so I wanted to stay within the engineering realm, and I took a computer science course and realized that I really liked that. So that became like a trade piece for me, something that I could actually have a trade, I call it, and I really liked it. So I did that aspect of engineering, but in order to create a base for myself. And the more I got into that, as I was saying before, I realized it was a group of people telling the engineers what to do or directing.

When I was working, I worked at Bell Labs and AT&T and I was wondering who those people were. And they ended up being people in the business side of the house, so I wanted to experience that part. The engineers knew what the product





was and how to produce things, but then this other group knew the market and the people and what was driving it and I thought that if somebody knew both sides it would be quite a compliment. So I got my MBA and went on the business side. But all the while I was like still writing and thinking about people and things like that and when it came time to think about perhaps doing the PhD, I started thinking about, if you do a PhD you need to do something that you're passionate about. And when I thought about the things I really loved, was people, culture, writing, travel, and I said, a PhD somebody pay you to research and write? And I started researching more those kinds of areas that I was interested in and it was between geography, history, anthropology, and things like that. And anthropology gave me the breadth and it enabled to incorporate all the other aspects of things I like. Again with anthropology you can go, as you all are, with different disciplines within anthropology and you can pursue those things under the umbrella of anthropology. And so I can still use my business skills. I can still use my computer science interests. I can talk to people who have a range of interests and bring all those things into the discussion that I was interested in. So anthropology seemed like a good fit because of the breadth of the things that it covered and the critique that it gave to those kinds of things.

	D:	What was it that led you to the University of Florida then for your PhD?



	J:	The University of Florida because primarily one of the big things was the fact that they were looking for students who had life experience, that actually had worked before. They were one of the few universities that I was really interested in, or thinking about, that were interested in people who weren't coming straight out of





school. They were really pro-life experience and so I had been out and working and so that part appealed to me, that they were interested in a student like that. And then again if I was going to be pursuing something like that for six or seven years of my life I figured I'd be in an environment, I was living in Chicago and I wanted to be someplace that was conducive for me to be going outside, and in classes and doing all those kinds of things. And I said, “Well, Florida is a good spot for that,” and was close to the areas of research; I was interested in the Southeast, so it was in that area. And then just the professors I had encountered as I was applying for the school. Dr. Crumbly who's not here, or not at the University of Florida any longer—she's at North Carolina State I believe—but she was one of the big influences on recruiting, or getting me interested in coming to the University of Florida. So I was very inspired by that and then Allen Burns.

He's a good recruiter. [Laughter] And so they were pretty aggressive in a good way, in terms of getting me interested in the program and maintaining my interest.

	D:	What was it like studying at UF? You came to UF in the late [19]90s was it? J:	Yeah I came in [19]98 yeah. I started in [19]98.

	D:	Yeah I've talked to some alumni, Black graduate students, that were there in the earlier [19]90s and I heard some very interesting stories. I don't know if it was around the same kind of atmosphere when you were there.

	J:	Yeah you know in the previous interview, I was thinking, and I didn’t mean to make it sound like I was sugarcoating the University of Florida or any of these kinds of institutions where African Americans are underrepresented, in a large





way. But again I think it was because I came from industry and I was already a professional in the sense that I had to jockey with that kind of being the only, or the underrepresented group. So that wasn't the primary thing that was like my focus. My focus was getting the degree I wanted and going on to the next thing. Although I knew all the politics of dealing with being one of the few African Americans and those kinds of things were present, but since I came in with a different level of accomplishment and things that I could lean on in terms of where I had been, I wasn't completely subject to those pressures. And as you can see, I don't know if you saw that, I had gone to Egypt with Asa Hilliard and I had this very strong background in Afrocentric thinking and all that kind of critical base. So I had people to draw upon and ways to bounce some of the information that I was getting, off. So in that way, I was better equipped to handle it. And I think it makes it sound like the problems of being underrepresented were present, but I think I just had a different of tools and confidence in dealing with that prior to entry that helped. And then I think by the time I arrived at UF, as you said, maybe in the [19]90s these people had to lay the groundwork and I'm sure they had a lot more heavy lifting than I when I arrive. Because when I arrived, in my class, I think they were making a conscious effort to create a more welcoming environment and more critical mass so that you weren't the only, even though still small in numbers it wasn't like two people in a class of forty. It might be ten or something like that. So it's not complete isolation, and I think that that helped because I had came in the summer, and I don't know if they still that BOR program or they called it the Board of Regents program.





	D:	Yeah they call it BOE now, Board of Education.



	J:	Yeah, and so I came in too with that cohort in the summer of [19]98 and that really helped too, because I had a cohort of people across the university and then within anthropology, we got to interact with professors and things like that before the main group of students came through. And I think that created a base to make it not as harsh of an entry. [Laughter] But you know I think the environment was such that, because I came with all these kinds of other knowledges, I came with the Afrocentric frame, although I was critical I'm not going to say I completely digested it, but it definitely gave me another way of thinking. And then I had a corporate background. And so I think when I came into the university I thought the university would be a place where they have knowledge from everywhere, we have discussion about. You figure out what works best. And I think I was really taken aback to find that some of the other knowledges, the Afrocentric perspective and some of the other scholarships and thinking that I had been exposed to, was something that you just didn't drop in the middle of discussion. [Laughter] You had to temper when you use it and I think I was really taken aback by this because I thought a university was supposed to be this intellectual hot bed where all these kinds of things get equal treatment, or at least treatment, not even equal but at least get aired. And it was like there were silos and complete erasure not like several things that you weren't supposed to discuss and things like this. And it was mostly those kinds of knowledges, maybe things like the Afrocentric perspective or things that maybe were challenging to the status quo which I really thought would be different in





academia, and it was not case. So I found that to be a challenge as a person coming into it, more than even being isolated. Sometimes in classes when you’re the only one and trying to negotiate those kinds of things and just the idea of education were these gaps at this level, at the highest level which is the PhD. I mean I know in grade school, in high school, and those kinds of things certain histories were told, but I just thought [Laughter] in the halls of academia at this level, that level of a PhD, that it would be more rounded. [Laughter]

	D:	I know we were talking earlier and you mentioned that there were some spaces outside of class that you all were able to have other discussions or meet other students.

	J:	Yeah because Gainesville was a—well you know, you guys are there.



Gainesville, it's the University of Florida and then everything else. So it's actually really a stark divide sometimes, between people who are associated with a university and people who are not. I happened to befriend a lot of people who were not in any way, which is usually my thing that I do, I try to get a reprieve from that environment and find something completely different. So I interacted with a lot of people who actually lived in Gainesville and maybe grew up in the area, or people who worked at the post office. I just tried to broaden my perspective and in doing that and because of the work I had done in South Carolina and prior to that, especially in Oyotunji Village I had to do a lot of research. Because I do a lot of research with the Gullah/Geechee culture in South Carolina. So I knew about the village, Oyotunji Village, and those kinds of connections to the community near Beaufort, South Carolina. So I came across





someone who told me about this Third Eye Market, there used to be a market called Third Eye where a lot of Yoruba influence and a lot of Yoruba folk used to hang out there. And it became a place where a lot of people either from the University of Florida, or just general hanging out for all kinds of people. And the space was quite affirming in terms of just the general energy level and being able to let go and just feel free I guess. It was a completely different atmosphere than the rigor of an academic, the requirements of an academic program. Even from the intellectual thinking about spirituality and things like that from a whole different perspective and engagement to some of the actual practices that the priests did to just partying and dancing and being just able to release in an environment where people were both engaged with your intellectual part but also concerned about your spirituality and your just general wellbeing as a person in the world living in that space. So I found that that place also became a solid part of my experience when I think back about going to the University of Florida and being in that PhD program. I think definitely about that space and people who influenced me. And when I had my graduation party, I had like all these [Laughter] professors from UF and I had all these people from the Yoruba. My uncle was like, “You have half the post office at your.” [Laughter] So it was nice because I did have a lot of people who were supporting me and supportive of all the process and felt responsible, and rightly so, to my completion of that degree. So it was a beautiful experience.

	D:	That sounds good. I notice there are a lot of students out there that listen to these interviews and I know a lot of us when we come to the program, we often





wonder how do you go about picking a thesis site or a dissertation site or doing research? And I was just wondering how did you ultimately come into your research and come into that you would study for your dissertation?

	J:	One of the things that got me into the university, I believe, was the fact that I actually came in with a really good idea of what I wanted to do right up front, like even when I applied. And that's because I had this association with the Gullah/Geechee community, because when I was even working still in corporate I had taken the trip up from Miami up the coast back to Chicago. And I had stopped on St. Helena's Island in South Carolina, right outside of Beaufort, and went to the Penn Center and got introduced to these people who were descendants of enslaved Africans who worked on rice plantations and people who were very much a living community and culture who were actually still practicing the folk, the Gullah/Geechee language. They kept a lot of their spiritual practices, they were still active in that. They used some of the subsistence ways of making a living in fishing, in boating, and some of the arts of the basket making and things like that was all still very much a part of their culture. On the other hand, they were being challenged by development, because these Sea Islands, where rice was grown, are in beautiful spots. They're in the water areas right on the coast of South Carolina and Georgia and Florida and up through North Carolina. They're in places where people want to be. So it's like a lot of the developers were getting a lot of lands from these people because of taxes and all kinds of other tactics they were using. And that's the part that interested me was how partly I became aware of it, because of their fight with the developers to





maintain and keep their land. And then when I visited there, that was part of the conversation about this whole issue of the developers taking the culture being threatened because of development. And then I had learned again about, when I first arrived there I didn't really know about Africans and rice, that wasn't even a concept to me other than I ate rice. [Laughter] But the idea that Africans, it was a technology and a knowledge that came with that. People were sought after because of that skill and that knowledge. And the whole technology of being African in America as opposed to just being enslaved and being told what to do, which is the way I had understood slavery, I just hadn't really understood it as other than completely forced and exploited, and that I just didn't get the concept that people were bringing anything, they were just trying to make it. So the idea of that challenged a whole lot of thinking for me and every time I told people about Africans and rice and Gullah and all of that, they never knew what it was, and I thought it was important that that kind of information be brought more broadly understood. And also that I more rigorously understood what actually is involved in rice agriculture and that kind of technology and technologies also are associated with that. And what were the ways people maintained community with that base. And so that was what I was interested, and even before I came, I was doing research, going down there back and forth. And so again when I started thinking about doing a PhD that was the one thing, the biggest thing that came to mind, that was what I really loved and wanted to continue finding out about. So it was a combination of the people, the agriculture, the technologies, it just appealed to so many things that were of interest to me. And then the whole





business part about the development, the developers, and then also I didn't really put reparations on it, but the fact that the economy of that region of the country was completely dependent. People who have their wealth now were because of those rice plantations and the work of those enslaved Africans. The wealth building that was possible is not talked about either from an economic standpoint. So from a business side that was like, okay that's yet another story other than even just the technology of it all. The whole thing was something that was interesting. So I came with that in mind. I didn't exactly know when I got there, I didn't know what the questions and how to shape it, but the area and the general idea of it was something that I already was interested in and I brought to the table when I came.

	D:	I guess moving to your book, first congratulations on your recent publication. J:	Thank you.

	D:	Speaking for the Enslaved. I was wondering what was is the motivation for you?



What was the motivation behind that book?



	J:	Well the big part of it was my dissertation work that I did in several plantations along the southeast, Kingsley Plantations, Jehossee Island, and also the Snee Farm which is Charles Pinkney in Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina. So those were the three central plantations that I had focused on for my research and I had spent a lot of time in those areas working in those plantation communities. I guess way back, if you roll it back, Jehossee Island was one of the first rice plantations I ever went on. I visited that and this is before I thought I was gonna do anything. I was in business, I was just like a little trip or a tour, one of my trips





down there. And actually my father and I, because he decided, you had to get to Jehossee, you had to take a boat or something. He was like, “Okay let’s get on the boat,” and I was like, “Ah.” But I got on the boat with him with the ranger and all that, we got on. But in that boat suddenly it became crystal clear that, that suddenly it was like the ancestors or something, I don't know, that moment precisely in that boat was like, you need to tell this story. And that set the course of going into the PhD, of doing my research, of writing whatever articles. But the book, in the big giant scheme of things, the book was the thing that I was supposed to be doing. I don't know how, like I said I was like one hundred percent certain that that was what I was supposed to do. So I never forget that. So the book was already set in motion. [Laughter]

	D:	Before.



	J:	Right. I didn’t know how, I didn’t know really anything about. I didn't know how it was going to come about it. I really didn't think about the book as it came out now. I had no idea what it would be, how it would be entitled, or what it would look like, or what it would entail, but I knew that I had to get that story out. So that and the process of telling the story was already, I call it divine intervention. But the actual act of doing it was you know part of it was the dissertation research.

And then I had been out for a while and you know how—well you’ll know once you get done with your thesis. You get sick of your own work. [Laughter] So I was like I had did everything, I did publishing and publications and stuff like that. But the story to me had become such “old hat” in a way. It was a good story, but I had personally thought it had run its course for me. I was ready to do other things





and I was doing the thing with the heritage lab and encompassing a broader discussion about where plantations and an underrepresented story fit into the national heritage, how we portray national heritage or talk about national historic sites in the context of American culture. I put that as one way of one discussion in a big range of discussions that could be had. But when Barack Obama ran for President and then it came out that his wife, first lady Michelle Obama, was a descendant from a rice plantation in Georgetown, South Carolina it gave me such a renewed—like suddenly I was writing, yet the book was always the thing I was working on. But that put me over the top because then I could link the discussion—which I had had on an intellectual, then kind of a rigorous research method—but this I could link it to a conversation that was current, that people were talking about, and I could show the relevance of talking about these kinds of plantations and these kinds of influences that everybody could enter the discussion. So that made me have a chapter on the connection between Michelle Obama’s plantation discussion and how it re-engaged even me who is interested in this already into these conversations. So I was able to then find a link for all of the things I had been working on and link it to a current conversation and also link it those first two chapters where I talk about heritage and national discussions like that. So all of those things came together and that crystallized how I could present the book in this current moment. And before that I didn’t have a way to present it in the current moment, and so that was a way I could enter a conversation in the current moment, because they were sensationalizing plantations and rice. And then they all the things the tropes that were just not





talking about the things that I was talking about, heavy lifting where people were actually you know the economic gain that people were getting from these plantations and the expertise and the technology and the things like that that were being brought to the table, were not part of the discussion. So this gave me a way to insert that part into the conversation as well. So that’s how the book actually was able to come out at the time that it did, because it gave me a new emphasis or place to enter the conversation in the present moment.

	D:	One of the stories that stuck out from the book when I was reading it was when you mentioned actually visiting a plantation for the first time. And you were all by yourself down this dirt road.

	J:	Oh for the Friendfield Plantation. [Laughter] D:	I don’t know if it’s the same plantation.

	J:	Yeah, that was Friendfield Plantation, the one that Michelle Obama’s a descendant from. Yeah right. I snuck off, and because of my passion and interest in these things I decided to go after the group had visited or went by it. And I just looked down and it had all those no trespassing signs on it. [Laughter]

	D:	I was wondering though because I know, well I’ve heard the argument in classes and other discussions they say it’s easier for African Americans to study African American history. But I was looking at it and I was like there’s a lot of places where it’s a lot more dangerous for African Americans to go, because of the African Americans in these southern communities than it would be for us to say do research over in some other place.





	J:	Oh yeah. [Laughter] And that’s true. That was an experience there too because you’re isolated and what are you doing on somebody’s private property and it could go either way. And so having less latitude in terms of a license to be places is something that African Americans face. And in the south even currently I did work on the Jimmy Carter site and those kinds of communities in rural Georgia and you know the KKK and all those kinds of groups are still very active in some of these rural communities. And you need to know, and I was telling my counterparts in the parks services and other things like if you know where these kinds of activities or people or things that I shouldn’t, especially I was brining students, that I shouldn’t be at a certain hour. I am responsible for other people too. And they were like, “We not like that.” No, well, but things are happening, whether you are doing it or not you are aware of these areas and people that are doing certain things, and so we need to have a direct and frank conversation about these kinds of groups and these kinds of dangers that African American or somebody, an outsider to a community particularly a Black person would have in some of these areas. Even my counterparts or other professionals were reluctant to have these kinds of conversations that I knew was as you asked. You had to be pretty direct about the reality of these kinds of dangers or these kinds of challenges in terms of being a researcher, just because it can be a positive experience or it could be completely dangerous. So yes I’m always, definitely in the south, conscious of movement for that very purposes. And on the other side even if you are accepted in the community or a place where you think you would be naturally accepted, nothing to do with danger, but just because you’re Black





and other people that you’re researching are Black, and things like that, you’re still an outsider to a community unless that was where you happened to grow up. So I was entering even as a Black person who was in the Gullah/Geechee within those communities that I was very much welcomed and I was at home. But that took a while. I mean that wasn’t, I didn’t feel like I was gonna get shot or anything, but to actually get in and be able to have people have real conversations with you, and open up to you in a certain way that didn’t come just because I was Black. I mean I had to overcome being an outsider just like a lot of other people would’ve had to do. I mean I might have a little bit of less—the hurdle might have been a little lower, but it was still people weren’t gonna talk to you because you just showed up.

	D:	Well on a related tangent congratulations again for your appointment with the National Park Service. I was wondering could you talk a little bit about your position, and what it entails being an ethnographer? A lot of people don’t really know the ethnography that goes on in the park service.

	J:	Well, right, which is the big thing that I found out so far since accepting the appointment.

	D:	When did you say the time was again?



	J:	Yeah it’s called, officially in the park services it’s called, the chief ethnographer for the southeast region, or really in technical terms an ethnography program manager for the southeast region. Meaning within the cultural resources division of the national parks service there is history, there’s historical structures, there’s natural landscapes, and there are museum studies. And so ethnography is one





of their, what they call their culture resources. Those are the kinds of things that parks have to manage. So at least there are approximately sixty-six parks in the southeast region. And so all those parks are responsible for telling whatever the public story, or national story is pertaining to that particular site. And so at any given time any of those cultural resources are part of how they tell their story, or what they need to manage in order to tell their story. So the ethnography pieces won. And it’s been like the stepchild of the [Laughter] of the organization for a while, at least in the southeast region, which is interesting because the southeast region almost has most, the most parks, the most contested history, and a lot of like things that would require to me would beg for having at least that position filled, because of the things they have to deal with. But that’s been the least.

They had an ethnographer. It was funny, because the chief ethnographer that they had was the ethnographer who I ended up getting my first contract with the national park service when I did my work at Snee Farm. And then at Kingsley plantation this guy he gave a, we went to apply for a grant for doing research in rice plantations. That was the ethnographer that over, that was over the project. And so it’s funny that coming full circle that that ethnographer, after he retired, the fixed position went blank. That was like at least from 1998. I don’t know when exactly he retired, like 2000, but—

	D:	So that was adaptable.



	J:	Right, they had an interim person doing it, and then it was been a gap. It’s just been open. It’s interesting that I’ve come full circle, and I’m essentially taking the position that the guy—the first person I ever encountered in terms of the parks





service—had retired from a while back, and that position had been. The park service and they’re called to action because their hundred year anniversary is coming up. And one of the things they want to do is engage other, a broader audience with the national parks, and national park-going, and including them in stories, and also in stories about American history heritage, and also encouraging a broader audience that could come to parks. And so part of this ethnography position is to do that, to help parks deal with, and recognize and incorporate associated communities. And traditionally this meant, for the parks services this meant Native American communities. Really, ethnography in the park service at one point meant Native Americans. That’s like because of NAGPRA, and those things. That’s a legal requirement, to address these issues of the Native American communities in a very formal, in a formulistic way. And so when you say ethnography means, basically it meant somebody you would be able to help deal with travel consultations, and address that as the primary associated or culturally affiliated community. But now, and my work was a forerunner to it, those kinds of other communities that have traditional associations with these parks became something that’s emerging is what they want to do as well. And so this position speaks to that. How do you figure out, identify your associated communities? And then how do you go about incorporating them in discussions, and doing ethno-historical studies, or ethnographic studies to find out how they connected to the land? How did they connect to these historic structures? Because I tell them ethnography is interval to everybody’s, everything that’s going on. It’s the people. Without the people





kind of informing the story, or being engaged with the story, and so then it’s just a thing. So it’s just—

	D:	Words on a page.



	J:	Yeah, or just a table. Who cares about a table unless you kind of discuss it in the context of its relationship to people, communities, society in a broader way? And those are the kinds of conversations that I am now working with all kinds of people in the parks service, because most people are focused on their area. If they’re doing natural resources they’re engaged in telling that story in and of itself without saying, “How would this impact communities and things, and people who use those resources or who travel along those grounds, or things like that?” The challenge is aid, educate people on again what is ethnography and talking about living cultures, living people, living connections to resources, things, artifacts, and all those kinds of that. Engagement is where I am sitting in a conversation. And since it’s intangible in a lot of ways it’s like you can’t just, we produce perhaps a tangible product, a study, or something like that. But the actual active what we do is really talking. So it’s an educational process right now, and I think it’s central to where the park services are trying to go in their next era. And so it’s a very important position, and that for me anyways really exciting because of the educational aspect.

	D:	Well, I know you’ve done research also in Nicodemus. You’ve done free communities, you’ve done slave plantations. I was wondering, I guess what would be the next book coming out? Where do you see yourself going with this research in the next five, ten years maybe?





	J:	Yeah, part of my mission with the lab is to continue to expand ways that ethnography, ways of knowing this history and heritage of people in communities in all areas. Some of the things, one of the projects I’m working on right now is with the, I don’t know if you heard, it was on actually the front page of the New York Times this past Sunday is the Dozier School for Boys, which is a reform school of Marianna, Florida. And they have, they found, one of my colleagues is a forensic anthropologist, and there was a cemetery where they found these, they were crosses but they don’t know who’s buried there, and what the circumstances of their death and their allegations of abuse and crime. Because some of these people, could possibly have been killed and just left there. So they were unaccounted for within the Department of Justice according to some of the preliminary work that’s going on. So it’s exciting to me, actually, to be part of this particular research team, because it actually expands the conversation to the social justice issues, because we have families coming forward. “What happened to my loved one? They went to this school, it’s supposed to be a reform school, and they never came out. We don’t know.” And so they’re igniting this and it’s gone up to Senator Nelson. All these people are really engaged in these discussions of exhuming perhaps the bodies out of the cemetery, finding out what the story is. And so the archeologists are doing some of the, they’ve done the preliminary work with the ground penetrating radar, and they found, although there’s thirty, a certain amount of crosses, there’re more bodies than crosses.

Like grave shafts. And the markers were only symbolic, but now the scope of what we’re talking about in that one sight is expanded, and so the next step is to





perhaps get the bodies exhumed. But it’s all this controversy with the Department of Justice as you know, because I think they don’t want to be, they said that there was no crime committed, but people are coming forward—testimonies of these things that happened to them, and acts of abuse that happened to some of the kids. So as a cultural anthropologist being involved in this, it has been very, very interesting and rewarding to me, because I’ve interviewed some of the boys who actually attended that school, who are in their about seventies now, and stuff like that. And another thing, the school was completely segregated. It was open in the early 1900s, and just recently closed down in 2011, but up through the period of time, where talking about up to the mid-[19]60s, it was a completely segregated space. And that I’m also definitely interested in those issues of segregated spaces. And so seeing this issue of segregation play out at this school, and then in the present with this act with the question of what happened to these bodies, or what happened to these boys. It brings together a lot of different issues for me. So watching a forensic anthropologist at work, and watching archaeologists and then seeing how all these kind of discussions come together with understanding the history of that sight, and the history of segregation at that time, and how it all plays out. That is a direction to me that’s exciting, because it brings yet another aspect of anthropology, another group of people into conversation, because they thought they were just digging up. At one point, “So what? It’s a grave.” Not, so what it’s a grave, but it’s a grave. But now with this issue of segregation it’s maybe multiple cemeteries because White folk weren’t—Black buried. So now all these people are in these conversations about





the history of that site, and the community and not just at one point about we just want to find out like what happened to these boys. But now they have to engage in all kinds of more complex conversations. And then having a forensic study, because with me as a cultural anthropologist it’s like you’re talking to people and you got words, but now they’re like, “We have a body.” [Laughter] My colleague is like, “There’s a body here, and we need to deal with this.” And it’s like whoa.

So you have like these. So it’s like the bottom line is a body. Okay, right. So having that kind of like all of the documentation from the grave shafts and stuff. Have those kind of markers as far as conversation, and watching how they can put those kinds of things together has been, for me, quite informative. And then it’s powerful to bring all of the three areas together to tell that kind of story. So issues of social justice are kinds of conversations that I can see beyond even the heritage discussions.

	D:	Almost like a forensic ethnography.



	J:	Yeah. So it’s a new [Laughter], you’re right. I live and deal with living communities, but there I am forensic ethnography. Who would have thought? Exactly, I like that. [Laughter] So yeah, those kinds of things. And again, continuing to engage where students take things. I’m always curious about I’m doing, I have a student in the heritage and education heritage, education and technology, heritage and technology, and those kinds of bringing, those kinds of conversations. Just having a space for people to become motivated to take it where I can’t even see it going myself. And that’s the beauty I think of being in a university, and being amongst students and people starting out, because they





can take it way beyond. Where I made my mark and thought it was at that point was good for me, but it’s the motivation now I see. The more I become, the longer I’ve been in the job and gaining tenure and things like that, I can see that the biggest reward becomes having projects, having, creating a space, and providing tools and resources for others to go and take it other places. I think that’s the most, one of the most, rewarding parts now of the job. So I’m just excited to see where it’s going to go. [Laughter]

	D:	I guess one last question, I know we’re trying to wrap up, do you have any advice for some young anthropologists I guess that may be coming up soon, things that you wish you would have known, or things that are exciting that you think they should get involved in? Or things they should do as student researchers?

	J:	I think the biggest advice I would have, well several things, but one of the things is I think is when you come into these programs do not lose sight of your professionalism. You should gain your research, a PhD as a research degree, but it’s also a professional degree. A professionalization has to come with who you are, what you’re about. So, you should take every opportunity to make sure your professionalism is you present yourself in a professional manner in the sense that you turn things in on time. You write a report if that’s required when they say you write the report. You turn in products that are as best as they can be in terms of being edited, in terms of being written well, and you just present yourself in a manner that you take every opportunity to professionalize yourself. Because that I find to be the biggest difference on the other side with students, even as grad students they think they can be lax. Sometimes I’ve been surprised





that students will turn in things that is okay, but that’s not okay. [Laughter] They just get by, but you need to be conscious. You don’t want to just get by, you want to have a product that when people hire you for something they know that you’re going to—if I tell a student to do something, and I put them on a project for me, I want to know that they can engage with the people that they have to engage with in a courteous. Even if they disagree people, and then all are put in situations where exactly not optimal. But you are not only representing yourself, you’re usually representing your professor, your school, your family. All kinds of things that you need to be very conscious about, and not let that, don’t compromise that in terms of it, so that when someone turns you loose on a project that’s what they’re going to be wanting to say, that, “I can sell that person to go do a project for me, and I’ll be one hundred percent.” Of course things will happen, but that I’ll be very trusting of their ability to figure out a way to remain in a professional manner, and have backup plans. Sometimes my grad students say, “I can’t do this.” But I was like, “Well, what are the options then?” Like, don’t totally back on me as a professional. If I can’t do something then I’ll have some way that that’s going to make the situation correct in some way. Like these are the other options. Like, “Oh I can’t come to class.” “Okay, well I thought you were going to be in class that day for me, so did you ask one of your fellow grad students to substitute for you? What is the plan?” It’s your responsibility, and you need to make professionalism. And then the other thing is just being willing to explore as broadly as possible. Not only in anthropology, but literature and sciences and biology, and wherever else you need to, you don’t need to confine yourself just to





getting ideas within your specialty area, or within a certain circle. The bigger your circle in terms of incorporating knowledge and ways of thinking. Best in class is best in class. Like an athlete is best in class. Like they have some level of discipline. They have some level of things they’re doing to get from point A to Z. You may not be an athlete, but you need that mindset of you practice, get up at a certain time, you do these things at a certain time, because you want to get to a certain point. So you learn that kind of thing maybe from an athlete, just because they have that kind of a discipline, or any other area that people who are really good at what they are really good at. Those are the models that you need to veil yourself of them, continue to pay attention to them, no matter who it is, because they’ve reached that level by doing certain things that you can apply to something that you are interested in. And I think that helps people in terms of their professionalism, and just their own creativity, because you get a boost from something else. Like I said I have so many interests, but they all work together to me. My interest in writing, and science and all those things—business—all that informs this creating a lab, and a business structure, getting funding. All that has to do with business, and organization and strategy. Those are the kinds of things that my computer science to keep things technologically current, and things like that, those are the kinds of ideas that I had brought. So none of it is disconnected to me, and in that sense is you bring it all together. And we often think in silos, and I think a real intellectual researcher or just a person, we are rounded as people. Although we specialize in things that doesn’t mean we turn off every





other thing. And so I say do that, and give credit to a wide possible circle of where you get your ideas, and your motivation from.

	D:	Well, thanks again for sitting down with us. J:	Oh, you’re welcome. [Laughter]

	D:	Do you have any questions for me about anything, no? Okay. Thanks again. J:	Okay.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jennifer Romero, December 14, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, March 23, 2018 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019