AAHP 335; Cannion; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 335 Willie Cannion

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Raina Shipman on May 17, 2014 30 minutes | 17 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 335

Interviewee: Willie Cannion Interviewer: Raina Shipman Date: May 17, 2014



	S:	What’s your name, again? C:	Willie. Willie Cannion.

	S:	Okay. And, are you married? C:	No.

	S:	No. Okay. And where were you born? C:	Jacksonville.

	S:	Jacksonville. When did you come to Melbourne? C:	1957.

	S:	What brought you here to Melbourne? C:	Job. I worked a job at the cape.

	S:	The Cape?



C:  It wasn’t the Cape, I’m sorry: Patrick Air Force Base. S:   And what is that, exactly?

C:  That was—it’s an Air Force base that was handling the government—it was an Air Force base that was handling the contract for the missiles. And I came in to work for RCE, who was the subsidiary to the Air Force.

S:  Okay. And, when was that that you said you came here to Melbourne from Jacksonville?

C:   1957.



	S:	Okay. And when were you born, when is your birthday? C:	March 14, 1931.





	S:	Okay. And did you start at Macedonia as soon as you came to Melbourne, or how did you get involved in Macedonia?

	C:	No, I came in at St. John in Oak Alley, where we sang—singing as a group for a while. And then, I got married, and we moved to Melbourne. And that’s when I joined Macedonia, after that move to Melbourne.

	S:	You said you were singing in a group. What kind of group was it?



	C:	Just a group of young people just wanted to sing, wanted to have something to do. And we enjoyed it.

	S:	How did you get involved with that?



C:  It was already in existence, and I just came around, started hanging around, and the young man that was the head of it asked me to come out with him. Well, that suited me. [Laughter] So I joined it.

S:  Okay. And what year—do you remember what year it was when you joined Macedonia?

	C:	1958. I don’t remember exactly what month. But 1958. S:	And were you baptized at Macedonia?

	C:	No. I was baptized at a very early age. S:	Okay. At a church in Jacksonville?

	C:	No, it was in Sanford. S:	Oh, Sanford.

	C:	I was baptized there.



	S:	Oh, okay. So, were you—you moved from Jacksonville to Sanford to—





	C:	Right. Right. I moved from Jacksonville to Seminole County, and from there back to Jacksonville, and then to Brevard County area.

	S:	And what brought you to Sanford? C:	My parents—my mother, frankly.

	S:	Okay. And do you remember the name of the church you were baptized? C:	Mt. Zion.

	S:	Okay. And how many years now has it been that you’ve been attending Macedonia?

	C:	Since 1958 until now. At Macedonia.



	S:	Oh. Okay. And how many—other than Mt. Zion, were there any other churches that you were involved in?

	C:	Other than when—than what, now?



	S:	Other than where you were baptized, Mt. Zion, and—



	C:	Oh, yes. I was a member of Mt. Calvary in Sanford. I believe they called it “Mt.



Calvary.” But this is in Sanford. I went in the military. Come out, and I join a church in Jacksonville. It was Ascenia, but I didn’t ever attend. So. I don’t really consider myself as really a member of Ascenia. Even though I joined it. And I left there, is when I come in Brevard County. And start St. John, and then Macedonia. This just been my long home. [Laughter]

	S:	Okay. Do you have any family members who are at Macedonia, or that used to come to Macedonia?

	C:	Yeah. I have some children used to come here. They don’t attend. It kind of bothers me, but they don’t attend now. My wife and I was a member here. I have





the Mayes family, they’re at this church. I’m trying to think of what other relatives that are in Macedonia. But there are other relatives here in Melbourne, but not members of Macedonia.

	S:	And how many children do you have? C:	Five.

	S:	Five children. What are their names? How many boys, how many girls? C:	Only one boy, four girls.

	S:	Four girls. And where—did they, like, grow up here in Macedonia, or—? C:	Yeah, they’re born here and raised here.

	S:	Oh. Do they still live here?



	C:	In this church. Yeah. Two of them still live here. My son is dead. And a daughter is in Virginia.

	S:	Okay. Virginia, okay. And did your parents ever come to Macedonia, or did they ever come to Melbourne?

	C:	No, my mother might’ve visit here twice.



	S:	Twice. Okay. So when you moved to Melbourne, she stayed in Sanford? Or Jacksonville?

	C:	Oh, she was in Sanford.



	S:	She was in Sanford. Okay. And do you have any cherished memories from your time here at Macedonia?

	C:	A whole lot of them. I just enjoy being a part of Macedonia, really. It’s been a source of leadership. It’s been a place that I have had the opportunity to express myself as far as God is concerned. A place of learning. I just—and I love the





people here. Let me just say it like that, then, just the pastor and all, they’ve been good to me.

	S:	And how was Macedonia when you first arrived here? Was it a small congregation?

	C:	Smaller than it is now. Within the church that got burnt down here some time ago—Bishop Carter has it now, but the church, we marched from it to this one after we rebuilt churchyard. I enjoyed that opportunity, of being able to transfer from one building to another, which seems like a progress and an opportunity for me.

	S:	Uh-huh. And do you remember any of the—during when you first got here, was the church involved at all with the Civil Rights Movement?

	C:	Yeah, they were involved. And just how much I don’t know, but I do know that they had a lot of meetings at Macedonia. Macedonia to me has been like the heart of most things that have been progressive. I guess that’s another reason why I like being a member of this church. It’s never been, to me, a dead church.

	S:	And what have you been involved in exactly in the church? Like, have you been involved in any, like, choirs, or community service, or things like that in the church?

C:   Yes, I’ve been a—I’m a member now of the male chorus. I have been a member of choir number two, number one. I’m a deacon here. And I was ordained here. I don’t know if I named everything or not.

S:   How long were you in the male chorus? Since you got here, or did you start—?





	C:	Male chorus, since 1967 I believe it is. That’s when it was organized. I was in the group when it was organized.

	S:	Oh, so you helped organize it.



	C:	Yeah. It—I was in the start of the organization, and I’ve been a member ever since. There’ve been—we’ve had some bad times, but most of the time, I have enjoyed—as far as I know, we’re the only group in this church that does as much traveling as we have.

	S:	Oh. Where have you traveled?



	C:	Oh, you name it, I guess I can match that too. But we—it been just about all over the world. Gone to different places in central Florida. We’ve been to Georgia. And I guess if I could name some of them, I do—but, Wabasso, Vero Beach. Miami. Male choruses sing at different places in the state convention. And Orlando. Sanford. Just about everywhere you can think around here, we’ve been there.

	S:	And what’d you do in these cities that you guys—like, perform in different churches?

	C:	Yeah, we, mainly the male chorus, we just sing. Sing, yeah.



	S:	Okay. And what other differences have you noticed throughout the years at Macedonia in regards to the male chorus? Any changes that’s been going on throughout the years?

	C:	Male chorus has grown tremendously. We scuffled the first few years. And sometime, it looked like we were going to break up. But, God’s been good to us. We had men who were really praying people. And it held up; I happened to be





one of them when down, at other times only about three or four of us would show up. We held prayer meeting that night. And looked like the very next meeting, there’d be several brothers show up. And then we’d have us a meeting at some places, go. And the brothers seemed real interested in male chorus, because we were going somewhere and doing something.

	S:	Mmhm. Now, how many people are in the chorus today?



	C:	Ooh. [Laughter] I really don’t know how many in there. It’s got to be fifteen to twenty or more.

	S:	Oh, okay. And when it started off, how many was it?



	C:	Oh, my God! When we first sang wasn’t—formed from a mandate. And it might’ve been ten, fifteen of us.

	S:	And you said you got married here in Melbourne at one point? C:	Mmhm.

	S:	Wow. And did your wife go to Macedonia? C:	Mmhm.

	S:	In what ways have you been active in the general community around here in Melbourne?

	C:	Not very active.



	S:	Not very.



	C:	No. I’ve been to the rallies and different things like that, but as far as stepping in as far as leadership and all that stuff, I haven’t done any.

	S:	Okay. What kind of rallies?





	C:	I say “rallies,” when it comes to the community getting together and deciding certain things they need to do. I try to be there.

	S:	Okay. And do you have any siblings, then? C:	Any what?

	S:	Siblings? Brothers or sisters?



	C:	I had three sisters, no brothers. And those three sisters all were half-sisters for me. I got—like I said, I had no brothers.

	S:	Okay. And, why is Macedonia important to you?



	C:	It’s part of my life. I don’t know how to say it. Why? I feel that God has been with me since I’ve been here. And I’d prefer not moving from the presence of God. [Laughter]

	S:	Okay. And, you said you moved here for your job here at the base? C:	Mmhm.

	S:	How long did you do that for, you said?



	C:	At the base over there for fourteen years. Then I got a job at the Cape, and I was there for twenty years.

	S:	Okay. And what did you do there? C:	At which?

	S:	At the base, what did you do?



	C:	At the base, I started off as a courier. Just carrying mail from office to office. And then, I got a chance to take ROC a course. And I became a technician there.

	S:	You were a technician at Cape Canaveral?





	C:	Well, we—electrical tech. We mostly handled cables, connections, and cleaning up. Before and after shots were made.

	S:	Oh, okay. And what—you said you were in Jacksonville, and then Sanford, and then Melbourne, right?

	C:	Yes.



	S:	And how did you find out about the job here in Melbourne? C:	Radio.

	S:	On the radio?



	C:	And TV, yeah. A friend and I rode down. Just see if we could get a job. And I got a job as a courier.

	S:	As a courier—okay. And at Cape Canaveral, you said you worked there for twenty years? And, do you have any memories of how race relations were there?

	C:	Yeah. Plenty of them. Some of them, I really didn’t like to go through them. Some nasty experiences I had. And yet, God just kept blessing me through it. And with my attitude at times, it had to be God that brought me through it. Because I say things that wasn’t pleasing the sight of God. And I’m ready to do things even worse. But, God just put me through it. I can’t forget Him. Been amazing to me.

	S:	And how many African Americans actually worked at Cape Canaveral when you—was it a small, or what was it?

	C:	The time I was there, there was a lot of people there. S:	Oh, really?





	C:	Yeah, were a lot of Black people. But they were all working the same place, scattered about. In the section I was in, it’s just mainly two of us: myself, and Bishop Carter. And then they brought on some others. Some more added on.

	S:	Okay. And, when you first came to Macedonia, it was a small congregation, right?

	C:	Mmhm.



	S:	Was it—did you notice, you said it has a “family feel” here. Did you notice any— once it got bigger, did it change, or has it always stayed the same?

	C:	They’ve always been, to me, a family-loving church. That’s one reason why I stuck here. And I thought it was the opportunity of my life for my family. And I guess that’s really—I just appointed another of them, member of my church now. But as far as Macedonia’s concerned, it got to be my heart. I believed in it. And there’ve been things in Macedonia said and done that I haven’t been happy with, but I was able to get along. And I realize that regardless of where I went, it’s going to be some of those things. So, why not stay here? And longer I stay here, the more I like it.

	S:	Okay. And… Where do you think Macedonia’s going from here, in regards to the men’s chorus, or—?

	C:	I don’t think that Macedonia’s going to be necessarily following the male chorus. I think male chorus will be of benefit to Macedonia. I believe that we, like many other churches, weakened so far as God is concerned. And I pray for us to grow, get stronger. And I’m looking forward to God just taking charge completely.





Making Macedonia a God-sent church for families who live one side of God. I’d like to be a part of it.

S:  That’s great. And, do you have any, like, cherished memories from here, Macedonia, that you could speak about?

C:   Cherished moments? One of them is that, when we marched from the old church to this one, I feel rather happy, proud. Felt like we were accomplished something. We marched from the old church here, I felt—I just felt it was something God was happy with, too. And I’m a part of it, so it made me feel good.

S:  You said it was a march from the old church to here? C:  Yes. Mmhm.

	S:	Oh okay, and what was it for? It was for once the new church got built, you guys marched to—?

	C:	At the time, that was our official, you’d say, move-in to the church. The church was built; everything wasn’t completed that we wanted. But the congregation was ready to move in. So, people had been gathering to give more. So, that money was raised with a fluid thing. Especially the times it clear. And the church was completed. And I imagine there must’ve been others just like me who enjoyed that trip. Another thing I enjoyed about Macedonia, that as far as I can remember, they have always had good, beautiful-singing choirs. I love that. [Laughter] So, I like to hang around a church where people don’t mind singing, praising God. Yeah.

	S:	And what got you into singing? Did you always sing since you were younger, or—?





	C:	Yeah, I was shy most of my time. And I sang, but not like I do now. I realize now how time’s passing on for me. What I can’t do for God now, I won’t be able to do later. So, I guess the years past, I figured, better put all I can in to God. Can’t give Him too much. And you realize how good He’s to you. And what little I can contribute. It takes all I can do, it still ain’t enough. [Laughter]

	S:	And did your children sing in the chorus or in the choir or anything? C:	Yes, all of them sang in the choir. Yeah.

	S:	Oh, okay. And you said you just always liked singing. Did your mom sing, or what got you into—?

	C:	My mom sang, but not in a choir.



	S:	So, not in a choir. So you just realized that you had the talent to sing? C:	Yeah, mmhm.

	S:	Mmkay. And, did you notice any differences from the other churches that you attended and Macedonia? Like, what were some differences?

	C:	Not really. I just felt more at home. Yeah, mmhm.



	S:	Okay. And when was the march from the old church to the new church? C:	Yes, uh-huh.

	S:	When was that, what year? If you remember. [Laughter] C:	I don’t remember what year it was. I really don’t.

	S:	And where was that—was it a far march? Where was the old church located?



Was it near here?



	C:	I believe it’s Brothers Street [Brothers Avenue] it was located on. And we marched from Brothers Street down here on Lipscomb where we are now. This





family center was not all built here; that’s been built since the Reverend Harris has been here.

S:  Oh, okay. And so, during your time at Cape Canaveral—you were at the church, right, at Cape Canaveral? So, when you were in the group, before you got in the men’s chorus, you said you were in a group, right? Singing group?

C:   Yeah. Yeah.



	S:	That’s when you were working at the base? C:	Yes, mmhm.

	S:	Oh, okay. And, how big was that group that you were in? C:	I guess between seven to ten.

	S:	Oh, really? Okay. And they all were from Melbourne? C:	They all were from Melbourne or Galley. So, two areas.

	S:	Oh, okay. Okay. And were you involved in any other organizations in Melbourne? C:	Organizations that I know of, I can’t think of them.

	S:	I know you said that when the new church was being built, there was fundraising for money. Do you remember how they fundraised for the money, or—?

	C:	Peoples sold dinners. They gave from the heart. They had rallies. And Mr.



Bersher/Berkshire came up with a chart. We first started, people weren’t giving too much. And then he put the chart, showing like a thermometer? And every month, he did update it, and you could see the thermometer rise. I think that help a lot of people realize that the money wasn’t being wasted. And so, I think that had a lot to do with the reasoning behind it. People got more interested in having a beautiful building, too. And I think that had a lot to do with the money-raising.





	S:	Okay. And do you have any grandchildren?



C:  Yes. [Laughter] I can’t tell you how many! It’s a lot of them, because my son had eight all told, and then I had three… My oldest daughter had one—had two. Two boys. And then… Frederick was the eighth. Angela one, Cheryl one.

	S:	Oh, okay. Do any of your grandchildren—are they in Melbourne? C:	I’m sorry. I said Angela one. Angela has two boys.

	S:	Oh, two boys. Do any of them ever come to Macedonia? C:	They come occasionally.

	S:	Occasionally, but they do come. Okay. And what do your children do? What are their professions?

	C:	Oh—you know, my oldest son, he is deceased. And one daughter’s a schoolteacher. Another, bus driver in Virginia. And my oldest daughter is deceased. And one lives with me, and she works with the Covenant—I can’t think of the name of it right now.

	S:	So, she comes to Macedonia?



	C:	No, she lives with me. But she don’t—she’s in another church.



	S:	Oh, okay. Okay. And you said you were baptized at the church in Jacksonville, correct?

	C:	No, it was in Sanford. S:	Sanford.

	C:	Mt. Zion.



	S:	Mt. Zion, that was the— Okay. And, were you involved in any of the Civil Rights Movements that were going on when you got here to Melbourne?





	C:	Yeah, it was marches.



	S:	Oh, you said you were involved with them?



	C:	Yeah, you know, as far as marching is concerned. Yeah.



	S:	Okay. Is there any, like, specific memories that you can recall from the marches?



	C:	It was just cold. The marches were—the people were cold. Just, the fear. The things going on is cold. I guess that’s the way I can say it.

	S:	Mmhm. Okay. And do you have any, like, special memories or anything from Macedonia with the men’s chorus, or—?

	C:	Any special memories?



	S:	Yes, like, instances, or any things like—?



	C:	I have several memories of the male chorus anniversaries. And the long-distance trips that we’d take.

	S:	Oh, you would take trips for the anniversaries?



	C:	No, no, that’s different. And the fun we’d have with each other when we’re traveling. If it’s on the van, or in a car, whatever we—yeah, we had fun with each other. And to me, it created a brothership-type thing. A friendship, a warmness. And a desire to be with the person.

	S:	And you said the anniversaries, what would you guys do for the anniversaries?



	C:	Have sings. And the history of the male chorus. Members who had passed. And kind of introductory of the new members.

	S:	Oh, okay. And what is the age group for that, with the men’s—? C:	It’s no age group.

	S:	Oh, okay. So it can be young boys—





C:   Right, all the way up. They still join us. We be thankful to have ‘em. S:   Oh, okay. And were you in the choir at your old church in Sanford? C:   Yes. At Mt. Calvary, I was in a choir there.

S:  Okay. What was the first, like, choir you were in? Were you young? Were you young boy, or—?

C:  Yeah, I was still a teenager. That was Sanford, Mt. Calvary. S:   Oh, okay. What made you join the choir?

C:  I just wanted to be in the choir, plus the fact some of my classmates, schoolmates were in the choir.

S:  Oh, okay. So, the church and the community was really intertwined. C:  Mmhm. Mmhm.

	S:	Okay. Okay, I think that’s it. I won’t keep you here too long. But, I’m going to— who was the pastor when you first came to Macedonia?

	C:	Reverend Massey. But it was right at the time the transition was going on. As a matter of fact, he wasn’t here when I joined. I joined under Reverend Gainey, that’s in Reverend Massey’s absence. And Reverend Taylor came right after that. And he was our pastor up ‘til a few years ago, I don’t remember the year. [Laughter]

	S:	Did you notice any major differences with the changing of the pastors since you were here for so many—?

	C:	Not really sure—yeah. It’s been some differences. One thing, I don’t feel—I maybe change that… I don’t know, differences. There’s some differences.

	S:	Well, okay. Thanks a lot for sitting here talking with me. I learned a lot.





	C:	Okay. All good. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Ryan Morini, December 8, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019