AAHP 322; Fields; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 322 Wayne Fields

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant, Ryan Morini, and Diedre Houchen on December 5, 2013

40 minutes | 20 pages













































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 322

Interviewee: Wayne Fields

Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant, Ryan Morini, and Diedre Houchen Date: December 5, 2013



	F:	Who was a graduate of Florida A&M University. And he was a drum major at FAMU and also at Lincoln High School.

	D:	Charles Hall.



	F:	Dr. Charles Hall. He is in Texas now.



	H:	So he was a drum major at Lincoln High School? F:	Lincoln High School.

	H:	What does that mean? You have to tell me what a drum major is.



	F:	He is major. He is the one that keeps the rhythm going. Basically aside from the band director, he is the assistant band director. He’s the one with the long baton and tall hat. And he steps it. Dr. Hall was also the assistant superintendent here for Alachua County School Board, and he ran the Title I program, which I am sure you all may be familiar with. Mrs. Daphene, spelled D-A-P-H-E-N-E, Williams, she was the assistant principal. I don’t know if Ms. Williams is still alive, but if she is, she’s in Maryland. Her daughter is a professor at Maryland, University of Maryland. Daphene Williams was also known as Daphene Duval, and she was the first African American to attend the University of Florida, contrary to popular belief. Philoron Wright, and I don’t know if I have the interview on here, but I do have Philoron Wright doing a promo. But I am going to leave this anyway. Philoron Wright is assistant superintendent for Alachua County School Board, graduate of Lincoln High School, and he is getting ready to retire. So you all can catch him before he leaves. Please, I apologize for the dust.

	D:	Unh-uh, no problem.





	F:	Frank Ford. Frank Ford led the revolution through integration when they closed down Lincoln High School with federal orders from the governor. And Tiny S. Talbot had to be forced to integrate Gainesville High School, Howard Bishop, Westwood Middle School, Howard Bishop Middle School. But Frank Ford was the first one to go to jail. He was the guy throwing rocks, causing riots, got put in jail, went to Gainesville High School and also started a big riot over there, too.

	H:	Student?



	F:	Student. Frank Ford is now a roofer, owns his own business, a millionaire. He’s done well. It is good sometimes to be persistent. Charles Goston was a drum major at Lincoln High School and Florida A&M University. He runs a local newspaper called the Black College Monthly. Can you write this down, please? Entrepreneur, attorney, and former mayor of Gainesville, Aaron Green. You will never get him on tape, because he refuses to talk to anybody that is involved in the media. He runs a bar now called Fletcher’s on Fifth Avenue, and go in there and talk to him. But if you expose yourself with cameras and developers, he will… I have two tapes on Aaron Green, he had a lot to say. He was a graduate of Lincoln High School. He was a teacher at Lincoln High School. He was a professor at Santa Fe College. He was a professor here at the University of Florida. And then he got his law degree, had a law practice and did very well. I have got two tapes on him, and he really knew how to do it. Wayne Mosely—if Frank Ford threw the first rock, Wayne threw the second. [Laughter] And he does not mind telling you. He was a graduate at Lincoln High School and also from Gainesville High School. And we had a huge fight, he and I. He did not like me.





	D:	He didn’t throw no rocks at you, did he? F:	Yeah, actually he did.

	D:	Oh man.



	F:	He hit me, too, but that’s how it goes. Robert Ayers, R-O-B-E-R-T,-A-Y-E-R-S. Robert Ayers was the voice of Lincoln High School. He announced all of the football games, basketball games, track events. And he was very involved in Kappa Alpha Psi fraternity, and he was a teacher at Lincoln High School. I think he is still alive, but I do not know for sure. I haven’t seen him in a while. We’ll continue to keep going. And just by putting these up here, I do not know if they are good. I haven’t listened to them in years, but they look to be good. The boxes don’t seem as if they got too wet, but moisture could have damaged them, so have at it. John Dukes was the last principal at Lincoln High School. Graduate of Florida A&M University. Went on after Lincoln High School to be principal at Eastside High School and then assistant superintendent to Dr. Dan Voight.

Johnny Moore. If there is someone that you absolutely have to talk to, it’s Johnny Moore. His wife just passed recently, but he owns Ruby’s, for which the restaurant is named after. Johnny Moore was the personality of Lincoln High School. He was just it. This man hosted, from his freshman year to his senior year, homecoming. He spoke at graduation. He is a very well-educated and articulate man, and his restaurant has many historical replicas of Lincoln High School. Please see them. I have taken him instruments, albums, and things like that so he can put there. Ike Caffey was a student and a teacher and went on to become the assistant principal. Mr. Caffey went on to Bethune-Cookman





University, DCC at the time. He is dead now. Last but not least, Albert White. He had a lot of good things to say about the significance in addition to his book, but he had a lot of good things to say about Lincoln High School. So that is the list of people who were interviewed. I think you can take a lot of what you may be looking for about the history of Lincoln High School, the significance that it has had on this community, and when it was closed down, how it was missed and how it fragmented the community as well. But that is something you can come to a conclusion with. In your notes, if you could if you don’t mind, typing that up.

	H:	Oh yeah. Absolutely.



	F:	So that I can have that. I have given you an annual. This information here and any other way that I can help, I will, because I know her father and her brother. She was a little girl then. [Laughter] I am making this available to her. For whatever you all want to do, and however you want to use it. In your notes, you mentioned about Distin Carmen or maybe the ones that are working with you who can assist me in some goals that I would like to have. So I guess I need to do it quick, because you all are going to be on the move, graduating and getting out of here.

	H:	Absolutely.



	F:	So my goal is to do the following. I would like to do a documentary and find funding for it to do a television or a film or an Internet documentary to be aired, something similar to a thirty-thirty, if you all have seen that on ESPN relevant to sports. My significance, my contribution here to the city of Gainesville has been different things. As a student at Gainesville High School, graduated, came to





University of Florida, played football here but was also offered a scholarship in music. My parents were a band director—was a band director. My mother was the chorus director at Lincoln High School. That’s how they met. My father was a graduate from Meharry Medical School. He went on to become a dentist. He went to St. Augustine. He went up to Hampton and met a lady by the name of Geraldine Youngblood, married her, and I was conceived. So I didn’t get an opportunity to really know him past my age of fourteen, because he passed at the age of thirty-four. I was fourteen, and he had a congestive heart failure, a blocked artery. And because he was so active in Civil Rights when Martin Luther King went to St. Augustine to fight for the integration of the beaches over there, he met with community leaders. My dad was one of them. And when he had a mild heart attack, with blocked arteries, he did not believe that he would be treated fairly. And he didn’t trust the doctors. And obviously they were… I don’t know. He didn’t trust the doctors to have surgery, so he died at thirty-four from what could have been a simple procedure, which was simply to unblock his artery. I think they call it an angioplasty, something like that. So passed that, my mom met Jerry Miller. I don’t have my mom on tape, and I don’t have my dad on tape. And that is the saddest of this whole conversation, because they were right there saying, “Oh yeah. Go talk to this person. Go talk to that person.” I thought I had enough time. Shortly thereafter I did this, my dad died. And then shortly thereafter my mom died. So I did not get them on tape, but I did get some significant individuals. So I would like to try and do a formal documentary. My





question to you is, Do you all know funding sources? Or something like I am talking about? Let’s be upfront. Let’s talk about it. Yes, yes, I will—

	D:	Honestly, I don’t. I don’t know.



	F:	If you don’t, then maybe this conversation is—



	M:	We can look into it. We usually are looking for research grants. Let us check into it, because there might be some things to fund a documentary project—

	F:	I did not tell you what I wanted the documentary to be on, did I? M:	Not exactly.

	F:	There was a, in 1972, 1971, the athletic director here at the University of Florida said before he would recruit an African American to play for the University of Florida, he would resign. And he did that. He resigned in 1971. And after that, a guy by the name of Doug Dickey, who also played here at the University of Florida, attended P.K. Yonge, came in from University of Tennessee for which he recruited a Condredge Holloway. If you all have never heard of him, he is a big deal. But Condredge Holloway was one of the first African Americans to play in the SEC. And they did a documentary on him for which it aired in ESPN. Johnny Majors was his coach, who coached at University of Tennessee for years. But Doug Dickey came in here at University of Florida and just went on a tear of recruiting African Americans. In three years, he went from zero to about thirty- two. So if you can imagine the culture shock that took place here on the University of Florida campus. There was intrigue with the introduction of African Americans here at the University of Florida. There was a death that took place for which they tried their best to sweep it under the rug. But a co-ed, a young lady,





was murdered, and in this documentary, I would like to talk about that. I don’t even remember her name, but a gentleman who was my roommate was charged with first-degree murder, and they dropped all the charges, but the girl was dead. She was tied up with her hands behind her, and her feet tied up, and she strangled. But for lack of evidence, the state attorney, whose name was Eugene Whitworth, just completely blew the case. Sully Goldman was a University of Florida graduate and alumni and an attorney who represented Joel Abbott. And that in itself turned this university and the team upside-down. But numerous guys went on, went through, have never mentioned this, and have dropped it. It was strange to me that even when I went on TV-20 and did that interview, I was just talking about something that I thought would be a little different from what everyone else would be talking about. I didn’t mention Ray Graves’s name as athletic director and former coach. The only thing that I said was, and it was well- publicized back then… as a matter of fact, it was no big deal. “We just aren’t going to recruit African Americans. Alabama hasn’t done it. University of Florida is not going to do it. And before it happens, on my tenure, I will leave.” He left.

But he had his big contribution by helping other football players in the past. But no one has ever really made it a big issue. Ah, it is no big issue. It is just the truth and a part of history. So if you all want to scrape some history off a rock, that is part of it. So that is what I would like to talk about in the documentary in addition to some of the other things that took place. And it had nothing to do with athletics and football. We had a program called the Equal Education Opportunity Program. They called EEOP. Ever heard of it?





	D:	I haven’t.



	F:	We got the opportunity to take exams until we passed them. One, two, three, four, five, six times. And as undergrad coming in, this was, as University of Florida students coming in, some of the first, a lot of us were first at our high schools and first to come here to University of Florida, we didn’t need that. We were students. We were children of good families, educators. So we didn’t need it. But athletic director thought that it was needed, and so we took the course.

Interesting scenario, it wasn’t just African Americans who were taking the Equal Education Opportunity program, there were a number of White athletes. And that was one of the ways for which we were introduced to the academic program at the University of Florida. What handicapped us was, when you finished with your freshman and sophomore years, and then you entered your college of your specific specialty, you were extremely handicapped, because you had not done what other students had done. But after overcoming that many of the people and guys who went to college got their degrees who came to the University of Florida and played football, ran track, were wresters, basketball players, we started what was called the UBA, which was the Union of Black Athletes. And we went and got tutors. From the support of a guy who was a senator, his name was George Kirkpatrick. George helped us in functioning as an organization that was really viable. We held a banquet, because usually only one or two out of that thirty would receive awards or trophies at the end-of-the-year banquet. So we put on our own banquet with our own highlight film and our own guest speaker, and George Kirkpatrick funded it. So it was a way of giving recognition and





appreciation, because our parents weren’t alumni of the University of Florida. And there were guys who got scholarships to come to the University of Florida simply because their parents were alumni. And they were big donators to the university. It’s no if, ands, or buts about it. When you own a million-dollar dairy and you have a contract with the University of Florida to provide milk, that’s a major contract. And then you give money back. And then when you have three kids that all played football on the football team, and you wonder, “Wow, wonder what life is like.” You know, we came to University of Florida, and there were guys who had houses who were on the team. And we had to make ends meet best way we knew how. So we had guys who went on to be entrepreneurs, senators, lawyers, doctors. It was a good group. Professional athletes. So it was a very viable education process. And not just the education and learning, the academics, but the education of being able to learn about life. And it wasn’t easy. It was… my first day in school, my very first class, I sat behind a White co-ed, and she turned around and looked me in my eyes, and she went, “Ew, nigger.” That was my first day. I came from Gainesville High School from an integrated scenario and had adapted. I adjusted and adapted and I thought I was okay. But boy was I brought back to reality when I stepped on to the University of Florida campus. So that was just the negative part of it. The positive side is that I got my degree in broadcasting and went on and operated a radio station, worked at a television station and learned the game of applying and selling, which is the game of applying for radio station frequencies back in the [19]80s, and then you were bought out by a competitor who were trying to get that radio station license.





A couple hundred thousand dollars. Since then, I did that three time, set up a pension, and that is what I live off of. So that’s what I did, and I am retired. But because I adopted some young kids on my second marriage, I had to come out of retirement. [Laughter]

	H:	It’s all new again. F:	[inaudible 23:55]

	H:	Yes, very much so. So let me ask a question. Broadcasting, the journalism school and department, did that at all… I’m naïve, so my simple thought is are there students over there who would be willing to work on this kind of research project, do research for that? To one, learn how to do a documentary. Two, learn about a really interesting project. If they are where we are, at the point where they are dissertating. Serious academics, I am sure the idea of this knowledge is useful for them.

	F:	Yeah, let me say this. That took many hours. That front, that’s both sides. Those interviews. So before you leave the university, I am not going to say I want anything for it, not a dime, but I want your help.

	H:	Absolutely.



	F:	So that’s it. Whatever you tell me, as far as in research and as far as getting individuals, I will leave that up to you. Can you do that?

	H:	I can ask them about it. I don’t know how then, even if we get a great product, a great film, how that translates to a financial gain or getting it on a station or anything. That is the part where I have no idea.

	F:	I do.





	H:	Okay, you know what I mean?



	F:	Research is what I would like to have you help with.



	H:	Oh, come on now. You took us to the right people. [Laughter] D:	We can do research, and we have equipment.

	F:	I can sell. That is what I do. I sell.



	H:	When you say you have equipment, what do you mean? What visual equipment outside of the tapes?

	D:	We should be able to get a video camera.



	F:	You got a digital video camera, we’re good to go. Because a lot of the editing that takes places is easy to do once you get it digitally recorded.

	H:	So let me restate what I think I am hearing. What you are looking for is to pull together a team of people who could potentially write a script, do the background research, and then operate the machinery required to make a documentary that you would then have a copy of to do with what you need.

	F:	Yes.



	H:	Mr. Fields, that’s doable. That’s doable. I wouldn’t say it easy, but it is at least, I think, within our realm of expertise more so than figuring out how to—

	F:	Okay. And my question to you all is how this going benefit you?



	D:	To be honest, everything that I do here is to benefit the community. I don’t intend on being around in Gainesville after I finish my degree, so I just want to leave something that people can hold on to.

	F:	Does this help you toward your degree?





	D:	Officially, no. Unofficially, yes, because I get to do something in the community, and that’s my main goal.

	F:	Okay.



	M:	Yeah. It’s good for us on our CVs, our academic résumés to have projects that we are doing, community engagement kind of stuff. So that goes over well with the kinds of jobs we are looking at, but it’s also just a good thing to be able to make this stuff available, I guess. It’s good for this program to actually be—

	F:	What is your goal in life? M:	In life?

	F:	Yes. People would kill, literally kill, for your voice. [Laughter] M:	I’ve heard that before. I mean, I’m trying to be a professor. F:	Okay.

	M:	That’s what I am doing. So I guess it would be a lecture voice. [Laughter] If you got another idea.

	F:	Oh man, radio and television. Your voice! D:	Late night.

	F:	I mean primetime. Easily, you could make a lot of money in that field of broadcasting, documentary voice-overs.

	M:	I’m open to that.



	F:	Animal Channel, Discovery Channel, History Channel. Oh man. All you need is the material, the exposure, and you’re there. Because you don’t have a Southern drawl. Where are you from?

	M:	Pennsylvania.





	F:	Oh, [inaudible 28:53]. Not that a Southern drawl does not place you in something that is negative, but you are what the University of Florida and the professors here in the school of broadcasting always talked about. It’s getting rid of your— how can I say it—your ethnic drawl or easily identified voice and have a Midwestern voice with not a Northern accent or a Southern accent, but an accent that is just right in the middle. That is what they preached here all the time. So when I was saying, Y’all and this and that, it was natural for me, because that’s just how we talk. But I had to try very hard to lose what you have now at such a young age. That you can really make money in doing documentaries like this with just your voice. So that is what I was—anyway, to stay on the subject: So, if research is what you all want to do, have at those tapes. Any other way that I can help you in getting in contact with people, there are some people that are on those tapes, and they know other people, but I don’t know how health-wise their scenario is right now. I’m sixty. Some of them are close to seventy. The hype about seventy is the new forty, don’t believe it. [Laughter]

	F:	Because there are some sick people out there who are hanging on. H:	I hear you.

	F:	So you need to talk to them before they go, if you want to get an updated version.

	H:	So my specific dissertation project is Lincoln. As you heard, Justin’s is Ethiopia.



And—



	M:	I work in Nevada.



	H:	Ryan is working with Shoshon—





	M:	Shoshone.



	H:	Shoshone. I want to say Shaw Shaw Money. That is what we say in Ethiopia. [Laughter]

	F:	I sure would like to meet some Native Americans. H:	Me too, quite honestly.

	F:	Because I haven’t been able to find any.



	M:	A couple Shoshones might be coming to the Seminole thing we are doing in February. So they come regularly.

	F:	I am actually looking for my glasses so I can see.



	H:	While you are looking, let me ask this though. What is it going to take from you to now get these interviews into this collection regarding permission? I spoke with Randall at the digital place, and he said he got the reel-to-reel machine, and he is willing to teach me how to use it to digitize them. And his first question, of course, is permission. Right? And I am like, some of these people are not alive. That’s one. And two, tracking them down is whatever. So yes, I would like to get them in the collection for posterity’s sake, but if I can’t and I can still use them, I just need—

	F:	Every person who is passed, they meet permission. This is already aired on my radio station. And for those that are not alive, I know their direct immediate descendants who will give me permission now. That does not mean somebody might not ask for some pay.

	H:	I hear you.





	F:	But these, as I said, have already been aired. And I have already gotten permission to do this. At this particular time, this is my property that they did the interview for. I can give you permission to use these. I do two things. I do a directory that deals with minority businesses, and I list businesses. I have done that for the city of Gainesville for which I have given Ms. Townsend a couple of copies of. If she could show you all. There may be some significance there. The only other help that I would like to try and get is minority businesses of the past. And I would like to do a feature in my directory, and I’d like to do some significance and the relevance of them and the effect that they had in the past. I would like to find out what businesses that are out there that minorities own (i.e. Native Americans). I couldn’t find any. I was going to say, unless I go to a reservation, but I haven’t tried to extend myself to that. Are you aware of any businesses here in our county, Levy County, going west, Columbia County, going north, Putnam County, going east, Marion County, going south?

	M:	I would suspect if we look into it—I mean the difficulty is, in North Florida in particular, you have a lot of intermarriage between African American and Native American people. So a lot of people seemed to have identified as African American rather than Native American in those contexts.

	F:	Yeah, yeah. My mother was Cherokee.



	M:	So tracing that can be hard. You check one census box and not another, and then—

	F:	Yeah, and that takes you out of the loop. But she never mentioned the Indian side of her, but she was red with high cheek bones and jet black straight hair. My





grandfather who was from South Carolina by way of getting off the boat and came to Florida, he was straight up mother country. Not a drop of blood from anything else other than Africa. His name was Youngblood, which is a Native American name. Youngblood. Interesting.

	H:	Your mother is Geraldine Miller. There is an interview in this collection, if I am correct, I remember seeing that, that she gave Mr. Buchanan—

F:   Mhm.



H:  So you are aware that that is here? F:  Unh-uh.

H:  Would you like a copy of that? Absolutely. Will you add to that box? I know I don’t have that on my drive, but if you are able to just put that one interview in that box, I will get it to him. Get a transcript as well.

	D:	Yeah, we can do that. Definitely. And actually, we have a vast collection of alumni at UF, Black alumni. And I can rattle off some names, and you can see if anything comes to mind. We can also get you those on digital on well.

	M:	I know we interviewed Ron Coleman who I guess was one of the early Black athletes here.

	F:	Ron Coleman?



	M:	C. Cranford Ronald Coleman, I think is his name. He was a track—



F:   Mhm. He ran track. Ronald ran track back in the [19]70s. And he was… I don’t know. Track athletes were no different in their strategy. You all have Mae Islar.

	H:	Mhm.



	F:	George Young.





	D:	Mhm.



	F:	McKay Banks.



	M:	Those are ones we are transcribing right now. They are in the process. F:	You have Charles Demps, Janie Williams, Mamie Leath. Good group. H:	Most of those were done by Mr. Buchanan, if I’m correct.

	D:	There are all Marna’s.



	M:	Although Mr. Buchanan did some with some of these folks. D:	Yeah, there is some overlap.

	M:	Yeah, no these are all in the past few years. F:	You all are aware of his current condition? H:	I heard cancer. Is that true?

	F:	Well, he had a stroke. He may have cancer. The last that I spoke I asked him to help me with the directory. We were going over to the Matheson Center, and I went to his house three times. And he said, “Okay, come by on this day and pick me up.” Three times I went by. Three times he did not answer the door. So I am under the impression that he was not feeling well each time. Joel was so energetic, paid close attention to details like getting interviews and doing things like that and being an historian is such right down his line. Right now, he is very weak. So that is why I say to you if you have an opportunity to speak with him.

On those tapes, and I mentioned to DC, please let me know if you are able to pull audio off of them. My number, let me please get that to you. You gave me your number, but I have never given you mine. Please feel free to call. I don’t do cell. I will in a month when I start the directory and start working it again. 352-373-





4931. My wife’s cell phone numbers: 665-3677. Her name is Linda Fields. Or 222-8306. She always knows where I am, 24/7. So there you have it.

	D:	I think we are running at one o’clock, almost. H:	Thank you.

	F:	You are quite welcome. D:	Definitely, yeah.

	F:	Stay in touch.



	H:	Oh, absolutely. Absolutely.



	F:	You are coming by to get Solomon, who’s in school today?



	H:	Yeah and then I go work at the library there, and then I’ll go get him. [End of recording]





	Transcribed by:	Derick Gomez; May 26, 2015 Audit edited by:	Holland Hall; February 14, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019