AAHP 058A, Simmons; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 058A Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Matthew Clark on June 15, 2009 1 hour, 53 minutes | 54 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Dr. Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons describes her life growing up in Memphis, Tennessee and her work as a coordinator with the Mississippi Freedom Summer in Laurel, Mississippi. Her grandparents were devout Baptists, thus religion played a big role in her life growing up. She attended Spelman University and noticed a stark difference in the way Black people were treated in Memphis versus Atlanta. Dr.

Simmons ended up taking a class taught by Staughton Lynd and joined the West Hunter Street Baptist Church, which was led by Ralph Abernathy, a good friend of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. These two events led her to join the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee. Dr. Simmons ended up leaving school entirely to go with SNCC to Laurel, Mississippi in the summer of 1964. She worked to register African Americans to vote and teach children in Freedom Schools. They constructed a massive library in an old nightclub that was firebombed by the Ku Klux Klan.





Keywords: [African American History; Mississippi Freedom Summer; Spelman University; Civil Rights Movement; SNCC]































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 058A

Interviewee: Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons Interviewer: Matthew Clark

Date: June 15, 2009



	C:	My name is Matthew Clark and today Monday is June 15, 2009 and I am at the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida with Dr. Gwendolyn Zoharah Simmons. Thank you so much for being here.

	S:	Thank you for inviting me.



	C:	So basically, what I wanted to interview you about today, the main topic was your 1965 being a female coordinator in Laurel, Mississippi during the Freedom Summer. But before that I kind of like to talk to you a little bit about growing up here in the Deep South and growing up in an era of Jim Crow, really.

	S:	All right.



	C:	So where and when were you born and what kind of environment did you grow up in?

	S:	I was born in Memphis, Tennessee and grew up there and I was born in 1944, August 9th.

	C:	What was your family unit like growing up?



	S:	From the time I was three years old, I lived with my paternal grandmother, my father and my grandfather.

	C:	What was that like? S:	It was wonderful!

	C:	Okay.



	S:	My grandmother really was, you know, kind of like my mom. It wasn’t that my mom wasn’t in the same city. She was. My parents divorced when I was three and my mother had to take a job and my grandmother—paternal grandmother—





said, “I’ll take care of Gwen while you work.” It was supposed to have been temporary, but as it turned out I was living in the house with my grandparents and my dad until I graduated from high school. Even though, you know, I spent weekends with my mom and sometimes in the summer two or three weeks at a time. She was very involved. But my actual residence was with the grandparents and my dad.

	C:	Was your grandmother a strong figure in your life?



	S:	Absolutely, very strong, and deeply religious, unlike either of my parents. So that made a big difference I’m sure, as I look back, because religion played such a big role and here I am even teaching religion, right. But my grandmother and grandfather were devout Baptists—went to church all the time. And so that meant I grew up in the church.

	C:	Okay, were you well off growing up and did you understand whether you were or weren’t?

	S:	Was I what?



	C:	Well off.



	S:	Oh no. [Laughter]. No indeed, we were not well off. We were not, you know, homeless or hungry or anything. For that period, I guess I thought—I didn’t think of us as poor in that period because my grandfather had a job, my dad had a job. So there were two incomes and my grandmother was a homemaker. So compared to a lot of people in our immediate neighborhood we were better off.

But when I think about it now, you know, we certainly weren’t middle class but working class people.





	C:	Okay. Did your grandmother or your family members ever try to hide segregation from you or did anybody ever talk to you about it?

	S:	Oh my goodness, they talked about it a lot. It was not hidden. C:	What kinds of things did they say?

	S:	Well first of all my grandmother, who was born in 1898, had been reared by her grandmother, who had been enslaved. So my grandmother told me the stories that she had been told about slavery. So I knew about slavery from a very personal insight and, you know, my grandparents thought that segregation was very wrong and they talked about it a lot. And also in my church there was a strong support later for the Civil Rights Movement and all. But yeah, I knew. And then also there was an attempt to protect me also. So that was the other part of it. It was like even though Memphis was urban and claimed to be somewhat civilized, it was still quite dangerous for Black people if you got out of your place. So while I was being taught it was wrong, I was also being taught to stay in my place out of fear of something bad happening to me.

	C:	Was that how they tried to protect you? By telling you to stay in your place?



	S:	Yeah, because, you know, clearly if you were attacked or something by a White person, there was almost no chance of anything being done about it legally. And it was interesting: I lived in a little enclave that was all Black. And then in order to kind of get out of the enclave, I had to go through a White neighborhood. Like to get to the buses, the main thoroughfares. We didn’t have a car so I had to walk through. So I was constantly being warned to be very careful, never go through there at night. And sometimes the children would throw rocks at us and call us





niggers. So I was very aware of what was happening all around me. And also, interestingly, and we’ll get to this later, my grandmother had what I thought was an unnatural fear of the state of Mississippi. And she’d never lived there, so it was totally based on stories. And so it was so interesting that I would later go to Mississippi to work. Because all my growing up she would say, “Never go to Mississippi! It’s the worst place in the world for Black people.” And she was aware of people who had had to escape from plantations where they worked.

	C:	Some of those stories that her grandmother—



	S:	Yeah, so she had shared that with me and sometimes people would be hiding out in Memphis until they could get the resources to go further north. So Memphis being right on the borderline, Memphis would be their first stop and if they had family or relatives they—it was still almost like an underground railroad, if you were running from a plantation owner that you owed money to. Because of the sharecropping system, you often could never get out of debt. So they would stay there, then go on to St. Louis and Chicago where they would be free. So yeah.





	C:	One of the things we learned about studying this course was how African Americans, for any number of reasons, just defending themselves, could get in a situation where they had to leave town and they had to run out.

	S:	Oh yeah, run.



	C:	Just, like, that day. S:	Exactly.





	C:	We talked a little bit about your grandmother and how she was a strong female figure in your life. Do you have any specific stories that you can recall or instances where she would try to protect you or any stories that she told you specifically?

	S:	Oh my goodness, well, as I told you, she told me a lot about her grandmother who raised her and she told me these Mississippi horror stories. She also told me a lot about sharecropping because that’s how she had grown up and how they would work so hard and bring in a good crop and still come out with so little money. So I had heard these stories and she also—she was very bright. She had great desire to go to school beyond the sixth grade, which is where she stopped. Because when she was growing up, there was no beyond the sixth grade in her area and in order for her to go to the seventh grade, eighth, ninth and on, she had to actually go to a boarding school. So she worked so hard to help bring in the crop because her brother had promised her that her money would be hers and she could pay for her tuition. And she had visions of going and finishing high school when the crop came in. Even though she said she had picked so much cotton, just hundreds of pounds, he wouldn’t give her her money. And so she never got over that. She talked about it a lot. And that, of course, I later understood why she was so upset with me when I dropped out of college to work in SNCC. It was really that she saw herself living her dream through me.

Because I had finished high school. I had done well and I had gotten scholarships, something that was just totally out of the question during her time.





So she never forgave me for dropping out of college. But I’m getting ahead of myself. But anyway. [Laughter].

	C:	That’s fine. That’s wonderful. Did she push you for education?



	S:	Oh goodness yes, Oh, absolutely. I mean it was never any question. It was like, “You are going to college.” “You.” It was like I would have let her down if I hadn’t done my best. And she was so proud of me and everything at the school requiring any parental involvement. She was just such a push for excellence. The other thing, which also baffled me but I understand now that it had to do with disappointment—she was a registered voter and she was very proud of that.

That was a big difference for the Black folk in Memphis. They could register to vote. And she was so proud of her voter registration card. She would be very involved with trying to get out the vote and going from door-to-door during election time and trying to get people to go register and a lot of people said, “Oh, it’s not going to do us any good.” And she was very active in the church. So at the election time, that would generally be the only time that anybody political— who were all White—would come to the church to get votes. So she would be there taking notes and asking questions. So her civic engagement influenced me. She was also very involved in trying to help the poor. And there were so many poor people. And she was a great gardener and so she taught me gardening.

And we had a huge garden and of course we would can food and give food away to the poor and all. So she really—I see her as the great influence of my life.

Yeah.





	C:	For a bit more serious, depressing question, can you recall the first time you had a face-to-face encounter with segregation?

	S:	Oh boy, can I remember it? It’s so—you know—I mean, I don’t—it’s such a constant problem. I mean I can remember how for our schools we would want to do the trips to the zoo or things like that and so there was only one day of the week that Black people could go to the zoo in Memphis. Or when the fairgrounds came to the city, there was only one day. So you knew all this stuff because the teachers would be trying to get the dates and getting the parents who were going to go with us and it could only be a Tuesday for the fair, it could only be a Thursday. I remember that we couldn’t go to the library at all, the public library.

And so at some point these big buses started coming into the Black neighborhoods that were mobile libraries. I guess probably without my knowing a lot of Black people had been complaining and saying the city had to do something, since we couldn’t use the public library. Because they didn’t want to handle books if they had been in Black homes. So you couldn’t check a book out. But you couldn’t even go in the library to read the books there. So I remember how we were just overjoyed to have these mobile libraries and they were just for Black people. So they never circulated in the White communities. So they were just Black people handling Black people’s books, right? I think the other thing that was always, I remember is that when the school board bought books for the public schools, we would get the hand-me-down books that the White children would have already had. And so we would laugh and we would like—the person would have written their name in their book, of course, before the books were





collected, and then brought over to our schools. So we would say, “Well what’s your name?” We made a joke out of it. “Who are you?” Based on the name in the book. So we weren’t even aware enough to be mad about it [Laughter] that we had these hand-me-down books sometimes with pages torn out or the covers torn off or what-have-you. But that was the way it was. So I remember the colored water fountains, the movies. We had to go up and it was always kind of joking about it. Like my father used to take me to the movies all the time and every Saturday we went to the movies and we had to go pretty much up a fire escape kind of a structure to get into—because we couldn’t go in the front door. So we’d have to go up and it was about at the third level. And my dad, who was slightly crippled, he would make a joke of climbing the stairs. He called it the nosebleed section. Things like that, I remember, very well.

	C:	More about your education, because you received a scholarship to go to Spelman, so you were really involved in school. What was your education like in high school, before college?

	S:	Well interestingly, I went to school from the first through twelfth grade at the same school, the Manassas High School, and back then they weren’t broken out. There might have been a few grammar schools, as they called them, elementary. But I lived close to a very large school and so I went from the first through twelfth grades in the same school. Now we of course had different teachers at different levels. But it was really a very wonderful experience for me, because a couple of people who had had such an impact on my life in the second grade, when I was in the twelfth grade, I could still go and see them, show them my report cards.





Because they had such an interest in me for the whole time, from the first through twelfth grade. And there was a real sense of family amongst the school and the students, the teachers. They took a real interest in our lives. So we knew them. Many times they lived in your neighborhood, they went to the same church. And they would get on you if you didn’t do well. Almost like your parents. So if you did badly, you didn’t want them to know. So it was really amazing and I know that I generally would make the honor society and we had a really strong honor society organization. And they would take us on trips and things. And also when we were studying for tests teachers would come in early, like seven o’clock in the morning to work with us on whatever it was, English or math. So while the segregated schools, certainly we didn’t have the equipment and all that, but the amount of concern and interest that I know I experienced throughout was very affirming and I think had a lot to do with my success.

	C:	Okay.



	S:	Yeah.



	C:	And then you went on to Spelman. S:	I went on to Spelman

	C:	Did you go there because you got a scholarship?



	S:	Oh, not only that but I wanted to go there. I mean I had three scholarships, but that was my first choice and I wanted to go. Several reasons: the pastor of our church was a Morehouse, and Morehouse is the male school in Atlanta right across from Spelman, the female school. And he was a Morehouse grad and his wife was a graduate of Spelman and you know in the Black church even now you





had such a sort of a reverence for the pastor and the family of the pastor. So the fact that she had gone there impressed me. The next thing was our family doctor, Dr. Bronner, his daughter was a graduate of there and she was in med school when I was in high school. And she would come and talk to us about doing well and becoming doctors and the like. So she of course talked about Spelman. So I had that influence. And then her sister, Dr. Bronner’s sister, she became Dr.

Bronner too, and then became our family physician when she finished. Her sister was a famous opera singer and so she was a graduate of Spelman and then went on to Julliard and then went on to Europe, because she couldn’t really do a lot in the South. And I think she went New York and then from New York to Europe. Well every summer she would give a free concert, and so that was amazing. A renowned opera singer and she’d bring her costumes and stuff.

	C:	In Memphis?



	S:	In Memphis at the church. So we were just bowled over. And she was a Spelman graduate, so for me that was it. Spelman had to be the place. So when I got the scholarship, it wasn’t even any question. I knew I wanted to go there.

	C:	What were your first experiences like in Atlanta and how did they differ from Memphis?

	S:	Well, when I first got to Spelman I think I thought I had arrived in Heaven. I mean, first of all, it was a beautiful campus. I had grown up, as I said, a working class family. The neighborhood was run-down and as was often the case in the poor neighborhoods, we didn’t have sidewalks. We didn’t have paved streets. When it rained, the water backed up and the whole bit. So to go to this—what looked to





me like just beautiful, well-manicured lawns and beautifully kept buildings. So I was just totally in heaven. I was so excited. And I liked Atlanta. And Atlanta at that time was considered one of the cities where Blacks had done well. So you had a much larger middle class. One of the things that people did there was take you around to see Black neighborhoods that were upscale, living in beautiful homes with lawns. I remember us doing that right early on and so it was sort of like, “That’s how I’m going to live when I finish college and get a good job. That’s where I’ll live, in one of those brick houses with a beautiful lawn.”

	C:	Was there a heightened sense of awareness of segregation in Atlanta with that upper middle class community?

	S:	There was less of that because, first of all, Spelman is a part of something called the Atlanta University Complex. So you had—and still have—not only Spelman, the all-women’s college, Morehouse the all-men’s college, you had the Atlanta University Complex, you had Clark College, you had ITC, which was the Interdenominational Theological Seminary, and you had Morris Brown College. So it was like a real wonderful enclave. Then Hunter Street, which at that time was called Hunter Street, had all these Black-owned businesses, so nice restaurants and pharmacies. So it really kind of shielded you from—and the school really did everything to keep you from going into downtown Atlanta or coming in contact with segregation. That was their way of dealing with it. They really wanted us to stay within those campuses and to do all of our shopping and going out. And then there was a Black theater in walking distance. So they tried to keep us from the downtown—





	C:	The University tried to protect you.



S:  Yeah, they did. I think that must have been happening almost across the board in the Black communities of the South, was to try to protect you. You knew about it. Everybody knew you knew. But it’s like, let’s live within our own enclave.





	C:	How did you get involved with SNCC initially and what were your initial reasons?



Did you have any personal opinions about the organization before you joined? Any motivations for volunteering initially?

	S:	Yeah. I had never heard of SNCC. I was totally aware though that there had been these student sit-ins, because that was all in the news, when I was in college that started. And so there was no way not to know about that. It was on the six o’clock news, you saw the students walk into a Woolworths, sit down, try to order a hamburger, a cup of coffee and often the beatings, the pouring coffee on them, and all that stuff. That was all on the nightly news. But to know about SNCC, per se, as the student organization that had grown out of, I wasn’t aware of that. I had sort of a confluence of things that happened to me that seemingly, I guess was my destiny, because I had no intention getting involved in the Civil Rights Movement when I got there. My grandmother, that was one of the first things she said to me. Because Atlanta definitely had the sit-ins and jail-ins and all that. And Dr. King was there and I knew about the Montgomery Bus Boycott. So it wasn’t like I didn’t know stuff was going on. Memphis came into things later. So there wasn’t much happening in Memphis itself. But when my grandmother, they drove me there, my mother, my step-dad, and my grandmother drove me





there. And their thing was: don’t get involved. “You came here to get your education. Do not get involved.” And the school brought all the freshmen in early for freshmen orientation, a week long, and we were warned, do not get involved with the student movement. If you’re here on scholarship, and we find out about it, we’re going to take your scholarship away. And you’ll probably have to go home. So that had put the fear of God in me, because I knew I couldn’t be there except on scholarship and loans. And I was not planning to get involved. So that being said, my first semester, I don’t quite remember if I actually registered for this class or if they sort of placed me it in, but I wound up in in Staughton Lynd’s history class, and I don’t know if you know who he is. He is someone who has not gotten the kind of recognition that Howard Zinn has gotten.

	C:	Could you spell that name for me?



	S:	Yes, S-T-A-U-G-H-T-O-N, Staughton, then L-Y-N-D.



So Staughton Lynd is very much like Howard Zinn, White Yale PhD, who had come South, he and his wife, Quaker, to teach at a Black school. And Howard Zinn was there also at that time. So I’m taking an American history class with him. It was some kind of a joint class and it was history and American literature and the woman’s name was Ms.—she wasn’t a PhD—Esther Seaton. S-E-A-T- O-N. And we were learning primarily African American history, even though that wasn’t what it was called. And so for me, I was learning stuff I’d never heard of before in my life because, we had not been taught that. I mean, slave revolts, Denmark Vesey, Turner, I’d never heard of these people. Then in the class we were reading protest literature written by Black authors. I’d never heard of these





people. Richard Wright, James Baldwin. So that’s one piece of it, that I’m like, oh my God. Then the other piece was that I joined the West Hunter Street Baptist Church, which was pastured by Ralph Abernathy, Dr. King’s right hand man. Not even knowing it was his church. It just so happened I’d made friends with another freshman and she invited me to go to church with her. She said, “This is my sister’s church.” So her sister was married to Reverend Abernathy. So when we went to this beautiful Baptist church, just in walking distance, it reminded me of my church that I had grown up in. So I joined the church. Okay, every Sunday, we’re hearing, “End segregation! We’re marching this Friday, be here!” I’m like, oh my god. And then, on top of that, Dr. King came to the church to preach. I joined the choir. The choir would go to Ebenezer, Dr. King’s church. So you see, stuff is beginning to happen that I had no intention to happen. But it was impacting me greatly. Lastly, the SNCC office was just about two-and-a-half blocks from campus and the SNCC volunteers, students who had dropped out of school to work full-time, they were constantly on campus recruiting for us to join them. Putting out flyers about demonstrations, sit-ins, and really calling us some pretty bad names, because we weren’t participating. So there were these three things happening. And the first semester I resisted, but the second semester I said, “I’m just going down here and seeing what this is all about—against the rules of Spelman, and back in those days you could not go anywhere. They were like, you had to sign out and say where you were going if you were leaving the campus. And at night if you were leaving your dorm, you had to say where you were going: to another person’s room, their name, their room number and their





dorm, the library, the time in, the time out. They really kept very close watch. So for me to go to SNCC, meant I lied on the sign out sheet saying where I was going. So I went in the daytime, and I was struck by these young people. They were my age, they had dropped out of school, and they were on the front lines to bring about the change that I had been taught all my life was needed, even though I was told don’t have anything to do with it. So little-by-little, at first I said, “How can I help without getting in trouble?” I had taken typing and shorthand and stuff in high school. I had a clerical as well as an academic track because my grandmother was always saying, “You need a job. You need a job.” So I said, I could help out doing clerical stuff. And so I told them that I could type and I could do things. And they put me to work right away. And I even was cleaning the place. Because that was the other thing, it was a wreck. [Laughter]. I was emptying trash. And so that brought me to their attention. So they really started working on me and that’s how I got started.

	C:	Did the other students on campus have—what kind of opinions did they have of SNCC? Were they like, oh these guys dropped out of college, deadbeats. Was it like that? Was it something different?

	S:	Well, some people definitely felt—they looked down on them as probably couldn’t make it in school, so this was a way to justify dropping out and all. Others were, I think, moved, but afraid, afraid of just the thought of going to jail. For most of us, if not everybody, who had made it to college, we knew what jail meant for a Black person. And just the thought of possibly being beaten and getting kicked out of school, your record, you were never going to probably get a decent job. It was a





lot of fear. So when they would be on campus, there’d be a little group standing, listening, because they’d be out there holding meetings until the security would run them off. It was like a cat-and-mouse game, often, they had to play to even hang out on campus because the school definitely did not want them there. And mostly it was guys, so they stood out on a women’s campus. But some people admired them and I know I did. I admired the SNCC people and I thought these people are smart. They’re not deadbeats.

	C:	Was there a separate opinion of the women in SNCC than there was of the men.



Were they seen as like—as far as women go, and especially at a women’s college.

	S:	If you didn’t go to the SNCC office, you often didn’t see the women. Because the people who came to do the recruiting and to always be trying to recruit us were generally guys. So you had to go there to see the women. And then I started trying to get people to go, but I had to keep it quiet, because I didn’t want it to get back to my housemother. We actually had housemothers in every dorm watching over you. And certainly after I got quite involved, I got in a lot of trouble. I mean, several times they threatened to take my scholarship away, and they called my grandmother and told her that I was lying.





	C:	What was your grandmother’s reaction?



	S:	Oh, she was furious. She was outraged. And particularly after I got arrested the first time. There was no hiding that. First of all, you didn’t come back at all and they would do pretty much do a bed count. So my poor little roommate was





constantly trying to cover my tracks, [inaudible 35:13]. She was such a sweetie. She wasn’t going anywhere near it, but she was certainly trying to cover for me telling—what was that lady’s name? It’ll come to me. But telling our housemother, you know, that I was downstairs in the laundry room. I mean just trying to cover for me if I was late getting back. And we didn’t even have phones in our rooms.

So you had a phone on the hall. And so if I was calling, often—god, I almost called her name. She was answering the phones, so you were hanging up. [Laughter]. You had to get somebody else to call to ask to speak to Smithie, my roommate, to say, “she’s going to be late, you got to cover for her”. It was just—it was harrowing. And of course the people I could talk to about it was Staughton Lynd, who was encouraging me every step of the way. And then after I got to know Howard Zinn, they were like, he was, yes, enthusiastic. “This thing is never going to change if you young people don’t change it.” And he wasn’t much older than we were. And then I became very close with Vincent Harding, the director of this program, the Veterans of Hope—Dr. Vincent Harding, who is also a historian and later became the chairman of Spelman’s history department. But at that time he was the head of something called Mennonite House. That was another influence on me that I forgot to mention. Because on Sundays, in order for the cooking staff not to have to work on Sundays, we didn’t have hot meals on Sunday. That was their only day off. So we were always trying to find somewhere that they would permit us to go that we could get something to eat. And interestingly, because the Mennonite House was seen as a church, we could go there. So I started going just to get a hot meal on Sundays. But as it turned out,





Vincent Harding, who was then working on his dissertation from the University of Chicago, he and his wife Rosemary were the head of Mennonite House. Well you had a meal and a discussion. And it was the first interracial, other than my classroom with a White teacher—and we also had White exchange students by the way, at Spelman, who came from other schools like Connecticut College for Women and other schools. So that was also my first interaction, at college, with White Americans as equals. That’s where that happened. But at Mennonite House, we were meeting with college students from all-White schools: Emory, there’s a women’s school there in Atlanta. A few brave women would come. And so here we were discussing racism—probably we didn’t even call it racism then—but segregation and race relations was kind of how you talked about it back in those days. So this was a wonderful interaction with White young people who also thought segregation was wrong, who were Southerners. Whereas the girls who were our exchange students, they we all from the North, so of course they were horrified by what they would see. [Laughter]. But it was really something to be meeting with White Southerners, who had been brought up like we had been brought up, who also thought it was wrong. So that was another influence on me and many of those White young people also joined SNCC and were marching and demonstrating and going to jail.

	C:	So in a lot of ways SNCC also gave you a lot of interracial interaction that you hadn’t had before.

	S:	Oh yeah, exactly, exactly, exactly. And then of course the Mennonite House was Black-run, but SNCC being an organization with African American leadership and





Whites who are taking direction, that was a totally a new experience, very. And to see everybody just socializing together and they even shared—of course I’m saying they even—but everybody lived together. There were Freedom Houses and Freedom Apartments that SNCC rented. And that was one of the reasons that the South was so outraged about SNCC and the whole movement, because one of the fears always promoted was that White women would be ravished by Black men. So to have White women and Black men living under the same roof, that was just seen as anathema to the White race.

C:  You talked about your first arrest earlier. What were you doing? How did you get arrested?

S:  And it’s so funny. You would think that my memory should be sharper. Sort of the rest have kind of merged together. I believe my first arrest was at Krystal’s, which was a hamburger place, a little hamburger joint. I don’t know if they still exist.

C:   They still have some Krystal’s.



	S:	So they still have some Krystal’s. Oh boy. Well a White women, whom I had just a reunion with at Connecticut College earlier this year, we both were there for two days telling our stories about the Civil Rights Movement. Her name then was Marty Walker. She and I, and after meeting with the SNCC folk, agreed—now this was in my second year. We agreed that we would work—we wanted to. It was our idea to try to integrate some Krystal’s restaurants. And we went in and they would shut down. At that time in Atlanta there were about five of them in the downtown area. So we would go in and they would shut down when I would come in and sit with her and ask for a hamburger. Their initial reaction was to just





close the place. So once we started doing that, that meant they were losing business, because we were just hitting all five and then we’d come back. So we did that for two days. And then, unbeknownst to us, they had a plan. So when we hit the third day, they locked us in the place and they had people in the back, guys, with sticks who came out and started beating us.

	C:	Was it just you two?



	S:	It was us two on the inside. But SNCC had guys, spotters they were called, who were outside to help us if something happened. And of course, when the door was locked, and they couldn’t get in, they broke the door and came in while a whole melee ensued. And they were trying to get these guys off of us. That time I certainly did try to protect myself. I was throwing plates and cups and stuff. And so anyway we all went to jail, needless to say. [Laughter]. Disorderly conduct, rioting: any and everything they could come up with, they threw at us. Of course nobody was arrested but the SNCC people. It was on pretty big headline there. I knew the gig was up then. It was like, “oh boy, this is it.” And Marty and I were—I think we didn’t get out—and of course they separated us. She had to go to the White women’s section of the jail and I had to go to the African American, Blacks section. I made a mistake. There were three of us. Barbara Simon, how could I forget? Because she and I were in jail together. It took them a couple of days to get us out because they had to reduce the charges and then get the bail so that somebody could pay it. So when we got out, I was almost more afraid to get out then I was to stay in, because I knew what was waiting on campus. And then they had called my grandmother and told her. When I got back to campus, Ms.





Gordon, that was her name, Ms. Gordon, said, “You cannot leave your room. No classes for you. You have to see the dean. You are in trouble young lady.” Because I had lied on the sign out sheet as to where I was going. So called in, put on suspension, told that they were going to take my scholarship away. They told me to call home. Called home, got set out. I was a disgrace, I had embarrassed the family, nobody had ever been arrested—the whole thing. The students really came to my defense, amazingly. And there were some demonstrations on campus outside the president’s house and people said I hadn’t done anything wrong. People like Dr. Lynd, Howard Zinn, others came to my defense. The church said they stood by me, and all of that. So they took the—they said they’d let me stay, keep my scholarship, but I could not leave the campus. So somehow I managed to get through the rest of that semester. That was the fall semester of my sophomore year. But then I went back to jail in my second semester and—I don’t know if something had happened. I was put on suspension but they didn’t take my scholarship away. At that point I had become pretty hardcore and I had planned to go to Mississippi. I had been elected— SNCC at that time was made up of—that’s why it was called SNCC. It was the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee. So the committees were student committees at all the major Black schools. So I got elected my sophomore year to be a representative to that coordinating committee. And that meant that we were, somewhat—it kind of really was that way at that time still. We met. They’d bring in the students from North Carolina, from Alabama, Mississippi, and there were two meetings a year where we would—like the board of SNCC and would





say the major things that we thought SNCC should be doing for that period. And so it was at that first meeting that I heard about the Mississippi Summer and the staff brought that to the committee, which served as SNCC’s board, to tell us about this. And I was thinking, “Oh wow, that’s phenomenal,” to take a thousand students into Mississippi the summer of 1964 to break that state open. And so I heard about it and then—I had taken my second class with Dr. Lynd and that was a world history class, and he was very involved in developing the curriculum for the Freedom Schools. And so I wanted to work with him on that and so that became my project, to work with him on developing the curriculum for the Freedom Schools. So I had made up my mind that I was going, but I knew I couldn’t tell my grandmother or the school. So that’s how I came to go to Mississippi.

	C:	You described earlier that during your second arrest was kind of when you got more hardcore, you said. You describe all these stories of sneaking out. Was there almost like this idea of romance to it? It almost kind of sounds like this espionage thing to me—like sneaking out from campus behind the president’s back. Your house mother—

	S:	Yeah, oh yeah. There was. I think it was. And then, when you did show up, the SNCC people just—you were special. They just applauded you for doing it and encouraged you, which helped to sort of make up for the fear. And I could see—I had gone there, I’m getting an education, I’m going to join the middle-class Black America. That was my goal. And so that was receding. But that was a scary thing because I’d been so focused on that for so long that that was my goal even at—





because that’s what my grandmother had always pushed. “This is your way out. This is it. Education, education.” My teachers, everybody. So I’m being drawn into this movement and these people have given all this up for them. And nobody was saying they were going back to school. So I was like, “Oh my God, I’m being pulled into something where I don’t know where it’s going to take me.” But yet it was irresistible for me.

	C:	Final question before we get on to Laurel: that first arrest when the church came to defend you, and these professors came to defend you, and students protested. How did that make you feel?

	S:	Good. Yeah. I was surprised. I though the gig was up. I really did. I really was so moved, because Spelman students were so—it just seemed to me at that point that they were not about anything. And it was like, “They know who I am? They care about me? Other than my roommate and my few close friends?” And I think it probably helped that Marty was arrested, because here she was from Connecticut College, her parents, they were supporting her, the college was supporting her. And that helped me too, I think. Because they weren’t going to throw her out, so to throw me out would have looked very bad. I think a number of factors saved my hide. [Laughter].

	C:	So her college up in Connecticut was supporting what she was doing?



S:  Oh, absolutely. And I learned a lot. We were just together—I wish I’d brought my poster, I didn’t think, that they used to advertise, and we had a big crowd. It’s no longer a women’s college but then it was. Now it’s just Connecticut College. She had a lot of support from her college. But there were a number of White students





who got very involved and went to jail from that college out in Minnesota, very well known liberal arts college. There were two—Carlton College. They went to jail. Their schools supported them. These were northern liberal institutions. So that helped us. Because Barbara Simon and I were the main ones getting in trouble. Barbara Simon was from Atlanta and did not live on campus. So she wasn’t in as hot of water as I was. She lived at home, but she was on scholarship.

	C:	So you made this decision to go to Laurel in 1965. S:	Yeah. It was [19]64.

	C:	[19]64?



	S:	Yeah. See, I started school in [19]62. C:	Okay.

	S:	So that was the big Mississippi Summer Project was the summer of 1964.



	C:	Did you ever tell the school that you were going? Did you ever tell your grandmother that you were going?

	S:	The school found out because of course I told people. I thought, “don’t tell anybody.” The dean did find out and she called my home and told them that I wasn’t planning to come home at the end of the term. So one morning, after I had finished my exams, when I should have been packing—but I had no intention of going. I was going to stay with Dr. Lynd and his wife, Staughton and Alice. And like six o’clock in the morning, if not earlier, there’s a knock on the door. It’s Ms.

Gordon telling me that I have company. Well, you never have company at six am in the morning.





And I said, “Company?” She says, “Open the door.” And when I open the door, there’s my grandmother and my mother. And they said, “We’ve come to take you home. We heard that you had lost your mind [Laughter] and were planning to go to Mississippi. And they were like, “You must be crazy if you think we’re going to let you do that.” So they took me home. And then I had to call SNCC collect and say, “I don’t have any money. How can I get back?” And so Jim Forman sent me a money order for a bus ticket and my grandmother intercepted it and tore it up. So then I had to call back and say, “I’m sorry.” And it was a money order so the money was gone. And I told them to send it to a friend’s house there in Memphis, in her name, so she could cash it. Because they were trying to hold me, pretty much, in prison there at the house. And I got the nerve up to stand up to them.

Because my grandmother got my dad involved and they were like, you’re not leaving. We’re not going to let you. And of course I had to remind them that I really was nineteen, that I was an adult and I had the right to make my own decisions. So it was very painful. But my girlfriend who got the money, cashed it. She came over to pick me up and I had packed a bag and I left. And the very painful thing was my grandmother saying--with my mom and my dad there trying to plead, my mom crying—“You’re going to get killed, this is crazy, it doesn’t make sense. These people are not going to let you come in there and register any Black people to vote. Are you crazy?” So my grandmother said, “If you leave don’t come back.” So that was the hardest thing. My friend, Geraldine Shaw, took me to the Greyhound bus station and I got on the bus and I cried all the way to Atlanta. And there was Staughton and Alice at the bus stop to pick me up and





that helped a little. And then the next day I was at the SNCC office and it was just bustling with activity. Because there were a thousand students and there was going to be the orientation in Ohio that we were getting the packets. So after the first couple of days I got in the groove and I actually drove to Ohio with Staughton Lynd. We had all these packets of materials. So it was bitter sweet, but off I was going.

	C:	Did the school remove your scholarship at that time when they found out you were going?

	S:	I didn’t lose the scholarship but I had no intention of going back. I didn’t even mention this, but Staughton Lynd had said—first of all Staughton and Howard were also dismissed. They were dismissed after my second year. Their contracts were not renewed. Before that Staughton had said to me, “You’re never going to make it. You need to go to a different school.” So he got very involved in helping me get into Antioch. And so I had been accepted. In fact, he had gotten Mrs.

King, who was a graduate to Antioch, to write me a letter of recommendation. And she told Staughton Lynd I needed to meet her. So I was invited to have tea with Mrs. King, so she could interview me about myself and why I wanted to go to Antioch and all of that. And she wrote me a letter. I know, it was amazing. And I had a full scholarship to Antioch.

	C:	And I thought I was nervous about doing this interview. Oh my goodness.





	S:	Yeah, yeah. And I never took it. I had every intention of going. As a matter of fact, on our way to the orientation we stopped at Antioch so I could have my on-





campus interview. Staughton Lynd actually drove me to Antioch and I had my on- campus interview. It was beautiful. I just thought, oh God I’m going to love it here. It’s so progressive. And I had every intention of going, but after—and I’m getting ahead again—but after going to Mississippi, when the summer was over, I didn’t leave. And I was supposed to start in September. And I got them to let me come in January. And then in January I couldn’t leave. They also gave me till September of—when would that have been—[19]65, yeah, and I was still not ready. And they had given me an extension. But after that I didn’t ask for an extension.

	C:	So let’s talk about Laurel. 1964, you’re a female coordinator in Laurel, Mississippi.

	S:	I wasn’t supposed to be—by the way, is everything working there— C:	It’s working fine.

S:  This is a long tape, huh? C:  It’s not a tape, it’s digital. S:  Oh, it’s digital.

C:  But I do want to say, it has been an hour and I don’t know what kind of time you have.

S:   No, no, I’m fine.



C:   Okay, all right.



	S:	It’s digital, wow that’s nice.



	C:	It’s got twelve hours of recoding on it. [Laughter]. We’re fine.





	S:	We won’t go that long. But anyway. Yeah, I was not supposed to be Project Director. I was supposed to be Freedom School Director, because that’s what I wanted to do was to teach in the Freedom Schools.

	C:	What were the Freedom Schools?



	S:	This was a major part of the Mississippi Summer Project. Getting African Americans, if possible, registered to vote and developing Freedom Schools and developing a political organization called the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party. Now the Freedoms School component was to be both schools for summer school for kids from three up and most of us also had literacy components because many people could not read or write. And they certainly couldn’t even think about trying to answer the questions that were often asked of Black folk to get even a shot at registering. Because they’d ask them about the Constitution and it was just outrageous. But the whole idea was so they couldn’t register. And they could have a façade that well if they had passed the exam, we would have let them register. So we were teaching them about the Mississippi Constitution. And trying to prepare them for some of the questions that we knew had been asked of Blacks. But the main thing was English, math, science, courting to the volunteers. If a volunteer, for instance, was coming from a school and that person, he or she was a math major, then we were going to assign that person to teach math. If somebody was a chemistry major, to help the kids with chemistry or biology. And mine was going to be history. So clearly we were planning on a real emphasis on African American history. Something that most of these kids had had none of. History, Black writings, things to help them feel good about





themselves and to know that they were not inferior beings, but they were people who had just been denied opportunities and their history had been stolen, etc. So that’s what I went there to be, was a Freedom School instructor. Now, as it turned out, I was terrified about going to Mississippi. I mean, my grandmother had put the fear of God in me. Needless to say, when we went through the orientation and I had met SNCC staff who had been based, I knew that it wasn’t a joke. It was bad there. Badder than anything that I had experienced growing up. So the reason that I kind of told myself that we might survive was because most of the volunteers were White students. And at that point, I thought, they’re not going to kill White students. They may kill Black people, but not White people. So I kept saying, “Oh, well this is going to be a protection.” And certainly the whole idea behind the summer project was that if you got a thousand majority White college students going in, the federal government is going to have to come in there to protect them. So I said to myself, this is how I’m going to survive this. Well when they started making the assignments and you would be told—you got a little slip of paper and it told you what time to come in to get your assignment.

Well when I went to get my assignment, there were two other people there and they were Black, both of them. And I wondered was up. And they told us that we were going to Laurel, Mississippi. And I said, “Well where are the other people who are going?” And they said, “Well, it’s too dangerous to send any Whites into Laurel because there’s really no groundwork laid there. So you guys have to get in there and try to open up some places and make it safe enough for us to be able to send White volunteers.” And I was like, “No way. [Laughter] That is not





the deal! I’m not going either.” It was like, “oh yeah, you know, you’re experienced.” I said, “I’m not experienced!” They said, “Well you’ve been to jail. I said, “But I haven’t been to Mississippi! [Laughter] I’m not experienced! I’m scared to death [Laughter].” So anyway, I didn’t have much choice. Because, I said, I can’t go home. You know, I guess I am going. So there were two guys.

One was from California. He had never been South in his life, James Garret, everybody called him Jimmy. And the other person was experienced and he was a Howard University drop out, SNCC staff person, who had been to Laurel and knew the county. And he kept assuring me it would be okay. I was terrified. So anyway, the three of us set out. Lester McKinney was the experienced person.

He was the project director and Jimmy and I were the two volunteers. He was staff of SNCC. So we couldn’t even go to Laurel initially, because we had nowhere to stay in Laurel. The whole way the project was set up was that in many of the major cities like Hattiesburg, Meridian, Jackson, Vicksburg, Greenwood, Greenville, those cities had had a movement there for some time. So they could send in the White volunteers as well as Blacks, because there were homes ready to receive them and they could kind of be squired away immediately into the community and absorbed somewhat. You really weren’t, but at least there was some protection. The community had said, “Yes, we’re going to protect these kids to the best of our ability.” There was nothing in Laurel. So we stayed in Hattiesburg, one of the cities that did have a big—and were put up in homes. But we would drive the thirty miles south to Laurel every day and we had a list of people, mainly NAACP members. And that’s all we had. We were





actually in the community knocking on doors, well if it had been White folk knocking on doors, maybe the Black folks wouldn’t have even open the doors for fear of not knowing who they were, etc. So that’s why they couldn’t send at that point. So we were knocking on doors, telling people about the project, asking them would they be interested, etc. And as fate would have it, after a couple of days, I knocked on this lady’s door named Mrs. Spinks, Eberta Spinks.

	C:	Could you spell that for me?



	S:	Yes. Eberta. E-B-E-R-T-A. Last name S-P-I-N-K-S. I knocked on her door and told her my name and that I was one of the Mississippi Summer Project volunteers. And she said, “Are you a Freedom Rider?” Well, I didn’t quite know if that was good or bad to be one, right. So I said, “Yes ma’am.” And she said, “Girl, come in. I’ve been waiting on you all my life.” And that was the beginning of the Laurel project. I went in. She said, “Yes, I want you all here. I will get the housing for you all.” She said, “You can stay with me.” And I said, “Well there are two guys.” She said, “My neighbor across the street, Mrs. Clayton, she will take the guys.” She said, “Let me call her right now. Carrie, this is Eberta, them Freedom Riders have gotten here.” [Laughter]. That was the beginning of the project. We went back, got our stuff from Hattiesburg, and came. And I moved in with Mrs. Spinks; they moved in with Mrs. Clayton. Now we then let the folks in Atlanta and Jackson know we got a base, and Mrs. Spinks said, “I’m going to find some housing so they can bring in more people.” Well after our first few days, Lester disappeared. Let me just remind you that before I left Ohio, the three workers that were killed that summer had already disappeared. Schwerner,





Goodman and Chaney. So we had been told, because I stayed at the orientation for two weeks because SNCC had put me on pay roll, ten dollars a week, right, because I had no income. My folks had cut me off. And they then made me staff and so I stayed for both weeks of the orientation. The first week Schwerner, Goodman and Chaney, of course Chaney was a local Mississippian from Meridian, Schwerner had already been working there for over a year, but Chaney was the new volunteer like the rest of us. And we had waved that whole group of five hundred people off as they took off in the cars and got things going. Well by the middle of week two, we had been called in and told that they had disappeared. And you could have cut the air in that room with a knife because when Bob Moses and Jim Foreman and Vincent Harding, who was one of the main people, part of the orientation, Staughton Lynd, Howard Zinn, they were all there. And they called the four hundred or so of us into the auditorium and said, “These three are missing and we are assuming that they are dead. Because there is no way that they would be missing for two or three days and not make contact.” The FBI had been brought in already and the attorney general had been calling. And of course the sheriff had the lie that they had let them out and they don’t know what happened to them. So they said, “They’re dead. We can tell you, they are dead.” Well we all about died right on the spot. So anyway, they said, “Look, if you don’t want to go, we understand. Nobody’s going to fault you.” Well you can just imagine how much more afraid I was. So then when Lester disappears, and there Mrs. Spinks, Mrs. Clayton, the people that had gotten involved with us, Mr. Richardson, others, nobody knew where he has. So of





course we had called Jackson, we had called Atlanta. They had immediately gotten on the phone to the Justice Department, because there was a whole process. Once anybody was missing, there had a whole chain of people-- senators, congress people—who had supported this. And we didn’t know where he was. So then Jim Foreman says to me, “You need to step in just for now until we can get Lester back.” He was still trying to be helpful. Well as it turned out, Lester was in jail. At first they lied, and said they hadn’t seen him, they didn’t know. But of course, when the Justice Department started calling and all they told the truth. Well for whatever reason, Lester had been arrested for some kind of traffic violation trumped up, but he didn’t go back understandably to face—he didn’t pay the fine. So when word got out that he was in town, they grabbed him on that old charge and they said—they had made it so much worse and said he would have to do five years in prison in Parchment, which is one of the worst prisons at that time in the United States. And it was that, or he had to sign a statement that he would not set foot in Jones County for five years. So of course the lawyers and everybody said, “You’ve got to go. This is crazy. Cause we may never—we don’t know how long it’ll take to get these charges thrown out, in the meantime they’re shipping you to Parchment, who knows what’ll happen to you in there. So he had to leave. So that left Jimmy Garret and me. So I became the project director, over my fiercest objections. [Laughter]. I said, “I don’t know anything about running a project. Are you kidding?” Anyway, they said, “We’ll send someone to replace you as soon as we can.” Sixteen months later, no replacement had come, but twenty-one volunteers were placed there that





summer. So we had quite a project. And then three of us stayed on for sixteen months after and the primary group of volunteers left. But people stayed in touch, they came back at Christmas break, they came back the following summer, they sent us stuff, you know. So we had this real network. Because I think once you went, it was a tie that could not be broken. And when we all get together now, you would think we were all blood brothers and sisters, because that was incredible and intense, life-altering situation. So I became project director. I still taught one class, because I didn’t want to give that up and it was an African American History class for young people nine through twelfth grade. But it was an incredible experience, because not only did we have the Freedom Schools, but there was something called Freedom Theatre that toured through and they were professional actors and actresses and they put on plays wherever we could find, sometimes outdoors. People had never seen live theater. And then there were all kinds of singers. Even the famous—what’s his name, folk singer. Dylan.

	C:	Bob Dylan?



	S:	Bob Dylan came and a lot of lesser known folks. And we were always having wonderful events at the churches or wherever we could have it. All summer. It was incredible. And we built a very successful chapter of the—it was the Jones County Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party. So we were involved in all of the—some of our folk went to Washington as a part of the delegation that tried to unseat the Mississippi regulars. I don’t know if you are familiar with what happened.

	C:	[Shakes head]





	S:	Oh, okay. Well what happened—we really weren’t able to get very many people registered to vote. So we had mock registration all over the state, where we printed out our own registration forms. And in many churches on Sundays, people would register. And we collected all of those and they were photocopied and sent to Washington to show, thousands did this, that if people could register to vote, they would. And so we also formed the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party, which then challenged the regular Mississippi Democratic Party at the convention in 1964 in Atlantic City. I mean you have to see the Eyes on the Prize series. Have you seen any of that?

	C:	No ma’am.



	S:	We own all of them here at the University of Florida. C:	In the library?

	S:	Uh-huh, Eyes on the Prize. There’s a whole couple of them that are focused on Freedom Summer, the Mississippi Freedom Democratic. Party. That’s when Mrs. Fannie Lou Hamer became so famous, because she was on national television talking about what she had been through trying to register to vote. It was so powerful that President Johnson, who was running for reelection, he was really annoyed that she was getting the kind of publicity that she was. Because of course, he and the Democratic Party bosses decided that they were not going to seat the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party, even though we had all this evidence that they had tried to register to vote. Then we had the election where people turned out, but mock elections to elect. And we had Black and White folk who had run, White Mississippians, who had sided with this as being the right





course. So we had an integrated delegation that tried to take the seats and there were people from New York and New Jersey and other places who put the resolution on the floor to seat them. So Johnson and—who was his vice president? Hubert Humphrey. They were afraid that if the Democratic Party did that they were going to lose the southern vote, so that’s why they were opposed. It was really an incredible situation up there. But that was a very important part of Mississippi Summer. But I know in Laurel we had two Freedom School sites. One was in a housing project, African American housing project that had a community center. We had a Freedom School operating out of there. And then once we were able to open up a building. We rented a building that had been closed down and was just in horrible condition, cause at first nobody would rent to us. They were so afraid. But a Black man owned what had been a dance hall or a nightclub, had been closed for years. The people came out and refurbished this place. It had been boarded up. It was horrible. We painted it. We replaced the roof. And that became our headquarters for the Freedom School, as well as our office, plus we set up a library, because people from the North were just sending down books by the boxes. And so our library was bigger [Laughter] than the Laurel Library. And we had a lending library. It was really an incredible—

	C:	It sounds like the Laurel community was really accepting of you all.



	S:	Oh yeah, I mean this lady, she fought her own pastor to open up that church to us because—I don’t know if you’ve heard of the opera singer Leontyne Price, she’s a very famous African American. She’s from there and she had put a lot of her personal money into having this beautiful church built for her congregation.





So the pastor was like, “We’re not letting them in here so the Klan can burn this building down.” And Ms. Spinks was a member, and she organized the women to say, “This is our church and we want the meetings to be held here.”

	C:	What was her first name? S:	Eberta.

	C:	No, Leontyne.



	S:	Oh, Leontyne.



	C:	Leontyne. Can you spelling that? S:	L-E-O-N-T-Y-N-E.

	C:	Thank you



	S:	Price, yes. So anyway, but our building was fire bombed and the fire department didn’t come to put it out, so it was gutted. So we lost that building. Not that summer, but after when we stayed.

	C:	Were you scared? I mean that had to be terrifying.



	S:	Oh God yeah, because they burned crosses out in front of it. But then they fire bombed it. We lost all the books. It was really ruined. That was after the summer project. So then we relocated to a very small building, which was like a duplex, a shotgun duplex. It was livable, so we didn’t have to—but then they fire bombed it. Yeah, it was—Jones County had a lot of Klan. In fact, I think it was considered one of the largest Klan—I think they call them covens, the organization itself. And so there was a lot of intimidation. Ms. Spinks’ husband worked for the Masonite Company and he was a union employee, so this was one of the reasons she was as brave as she was. Because he was a union man working in a large factory





that was not owned in the South, but owned by Northerners. And Ms. Clayton was brave because she was retired and getting Social Security. But other people who put up, they were threatened. Like one family where the woman was a public school teacher: she was threatened with her job.

So people really went out on a limb to let us move in. The churches were threatened. It was a very, very frightening period. Even though we were able to do what we were able to do. But all over the state there was intimidation, jailings, beatings. And we had jailings in our group too. But we knew they were in jail and no one disappeared and no one was seriously hurt that summer. The project— there were two women and myself who stayed. They were from California, both of the women. One was a Smith graduate—trying to pull names up as we talk.

The other one, I don’t even think she had gone to college. It was interesting. She was kind of a rare White American to come, a person who was not a college student. Maybe had been to one year or so of community college, but very dedicated and she stayed the whole time. The sixteen months that the project was in. And then three local Mississippi young men, all of whom had been kicked out of high school because of their involvement in the Civil Rights Movement.

They were sent to work with us. So the six of us were the project after the summer and went on until November of [19]65.

	C:	That’s when you left?



	S:	That’s when I left. Yeah, I was in bad shape when I left, because I had been arrested along with a thousand people in Jackson. I mean a lot of things, just





the—now I think we have a name for this, what are they called, what happens to those guys in—

	C:	Post-Traumatic Stress?



	S:	Yes. And of course we didn’t have a name for that then. But a number of the SNCC people had breakdowns.

	C:	I would imagine.



	S:	Oh it was awful. I mean I had to learn to drive there, because I had never had a car. Growing up we never owned a car, so I had never driven in my life. So I had to learn how to drive. I was a new driver, and yet anytime you went out on the road, you knew they all had your—because first of all, the cops were working in cahoots with the Klan. And so they knew your license plates and anytime you saw a truck with a Confederate flag and they all had gun racks. You were just terrified. You didn’t know if they were gonna try to stop you. On a couple of occasions, I literally out-ran people who were after me. So it was just—but you’re in the—

	C:	What kind of occasions? Why would—



	S:	Well, it’s just that you’re driving back from Jackson, we had to go to Jackson for meetings, and like I said, the highway patrol had our numbers. We were basically encouraged never to stop. Not out on the open road. If you could, out-run them till you could get in a town, so somebody could see you being arrested. So it was scary. I was laughing telling somebody—I just was in Chicago at the University of Chicago in a symposium on the Civil Rights Movement. And we were laughing because there were White and Black folk at this symposium. We were all talking





about SNCC and our experiences and I was saying when Marion Davidson was one of the two women who remained. If she was driving, I would get on the floorboard if we were driving outside of the city limits to go, say, down to Hattiesburg for a meeting. Or if I was driving, she would be down on the floorboard. Because you didn’t want to have anybody who maybe didn’t know you were, like the police, just some random person. If they saw a black and a White person in the car together they would probably assume—young peoples— that you were Civil Rights workers. And you never knew what they may do to you. So it was very—I mean, we were living under a terrorist dict—government, as well as people who just hated what was happening. You’re down here trying to change our way of life. We’re not going to let you. Anyway, when I was arrested in Jackson, there were a thousand of us arrested at a big demonstration down at the capitol building. I was in, like a lot of people, for fifteen days, and we were not in jail. There was too many of us, so they took us to a fairground and kept us in these buildings that you normally, when the fair comes to town, keep the livestock in. And we were—people were beaten, people were—the first day that they arrested us, the males and the females, they had us all together. And we were signing freedom songs and shouting, “I’m not scared of your jails ‘cause I want my freedom.” As often happened, it’s very jubilant. There’s a lot of spirit and everything. And this just enraged them that we were singing. They told us to shut up, and we wouldn’t shut up. They went out and brought in these White men who had sticks. And they just waded into us, just beating—and they all had been deputized so that they could legally do it. And I saw people’s heads being





cracked open and blood all over the place. So that was the first day. They made us shut up, I mean—

	C:	And this was in the capital of Mississippi?



	S:	Yeah, Jackson is the capital. So, because it became clear that if we didn’t stop singing, somebody was going to get killed. And so then they divided the men and the women and then they divided the Whites and the Blacks. And there were many more Black people, which they kept us all out there, men in one building, women in another. And then they took the White volunteers and staff downtown to the jail. So we didn’t know what was happening to them; they didn’t know what was happening to us. And one of the things was when we were marching through the Black community on our way to the capital, people just jumped off their porches, and joined us. And so there were people who had no idea they were going to get arrested and they were not prepared for the roundup that happened: people who maybe just had on some slides, because they just thought we were marching through singing; people with babies on their hip. So here we are for days with babies in there with us and no diap—it became very horrible. And those of us who were SNCC, we were trying to keep some order and keep people from just losing it. ‘Cause they were like, “I’m never going to get out of here. I left my kids at home. I don’t know who’s taking care of them.” And there was nothing we could do. And then while that was happening, we were being constantly harassed. At first they didn’t feed us. People were hungry. The kids screaming. So anyway, by the time that I got out on top of—this was in my fifteenth month there—I was in very bad shape. But I didn’t really know about it





until Jim Foreman, thank goodness, he came to town and he said, “You got to come out. You’ve been here too long. You need a break.” And I kept saying, “Well if I leave, everybody’s going to leave from the project,” because I was sort of was the person kind of holding it together. Of course when I did go and tell the group, then the three Mississippi guys, they didn’t have anywhere to go to other than they could go back home, of course, in Mississippi. But Marion Davidson and Lynell Barrett were the two women from California. And they said, “Well we’re not going to stay if you’re not staying.” The guys, two of them, we were able to get some of the volunteers who had come from Massachusetts to find places for them to go live who would take care of them and send them to school. So they went to Massachusetts, Newton, Massachusetts, and were enrolled in the high school. The other guy didn’t want to go to school and he went back home and then the three women, we left. And that was the end of the Laurel project and it was very sad. I was terribly distraught to leave the community. I don’t know what I thought I was going to do, stay there for the rest of my life I guess. But I went and I was taken to New York by SNCC to work in the New York office, so that was the end of my time in Laurel.

	C:	You talked about the women who housed you and how they sort of organized the community, and the church and you being a female coordinator. How did gender play a role in all of this?

	S:	That’s very interesting because it definitely played a role. I think for some of the people in the community, it was very unusual, especially given my age. I was twenty by then. To have this young woman, but it was happening. We had three





women-led projects that summer in Mississippi. But it was unusual because all of the other projects had males and the directors had always been males. So even to almost the end of SNCC’s time, it was very few women who were project directors. And the volunteers, there were often some difficulties because we had many more guys who had volunteered and certainly this is 1964, [19]65, so the idea of women running a project. I sometimes had difficulties with the guys who were volunteers not wanting to do as I was suggesting even though, I think, I was very—we were ultra-democratic in the sense we would meet sometimes half the night after everybody had gotten back from canvassing, teaching, doing whatever your assignment was, because we had to have consensus on everything. I thought that was the best way to operate. I had problems with the SNCC higher up guys who definitely, I felt, treated us shabbily in some respects. For instance, one of the things you really needed was a good car. Cause you might be trying to run for your life. And the cars that we had in the project for the longest, well I should say initially, had been volunteers bringing their own cars down and donating them. And often they were older. And I kept asking for a new car because SNCC—I guess it was the Automobile Workers’ Union—they gave SNCC a fleet of cars and there might have been as many as thirty cars, brand new cars, and I had asked for one, because we didn’t have a good car. And it was sort of like, you’re not getting one of these cars. These cars are going to the guys. So I felt that stuff like that was—

	C:	--In the meanwhile you’re like, this is my livelihood.





	S:	Exactly [Laughter], but it was theirs too, but you the thing is that in some cases they might already have one very good car and then here was a second brand new car going, whereas we had clunkers. I learned on a 1954 Chevy with a stick on the wheel and it was ten years old.

	C:	This is a ten-year-old car.



	S:	Yeah, and often the people in the community, if we had to go to Jackson or somewhere, they would go with us in their more modern cars. So I had to fight for everything, everything: supplies, things like that. So I felt like, definitely I felt like I was discriminated against as a woman.

	C:	You talked about how you operated things democratically with the census and everything. And this applies with both democracy and like a broader picture. How did you experience shape your political views, especially here in Laurel, which we we’re—

	S:	Oh boy, well I think that SNCC—



	C:	And then what feelings did you come out of Laurel with?



	S:	Well SNCC was ultra-democratic, so that was—in fact sometimes it just got ridiculous. And the SNCC staff meetings, particularly once after the Mississippi Summer Project, SNCC became then a staff-run as opposed to those committees that I told you about. Because we had many more staff, because quite a lot of volunteers wanted to become full-time. Whether they were getting paid or not, they were staff. We were a much larger organization, became staff- run. And it was nothing for us to meet for twenty hours non-stop trying to make a decision about something. But I had seen that operating even prior when we





were operating as committees, the coordinating committee. So that idea really had taken hold with me, is that you’ve got to talk everything through, even though you might do a majority vote if you just cannot get consensus. But the whole idea that I had in terms of the project was that we were all equals in the sense that we were all there pulling our lives on the line for something that we believed in and that we shouldn’t be pushing anything down somebody’s throat. That we got to talk this thing out and find out what is it that’s bothering you, why don’t you want to do this, do you have good reasons, let’s hear them. So that had clearly impacted me in terms of my thinking from that point on. I think the one thing that I never, ever have forgotten was to see people become civically engaged and what people would put on the line for something they believed in. And that local, regular people really get it if they have a shot at participating in movements.

Because those people were amazing. I mean we were catalytic agents in a lot of ways and we brought certain resources that they maybe didn’t have, but they ran with it. They really did, and so the whole idea of grassroots movements and what they can do, what they can accomplish, I saw it. There’s no way to take that away from my way of thinking in terms of knowing that local people can change things.

	C:	I have so much more I would love to ask you about, and if you would ever like to be interviewed sometime in the beginning of the fall about post-Laurel experience. I would love to have a discussion with you about religion in general, from your Baptist upbringing to like, Sufism and Nation of Islam, that would be wonderful. But we need to cut it down now. I just have a few more questions.





Modern day connections, and you’re talking about grassroots: what does the election of Barack Obama say about where we are today versus where we were then, even considering the fact that he was a grassroots organizer in Chicago?

	S:	Yeah, yeah, and I loved that about him, that was a real attraction. That he had had that experience, I thought, was so important. Clearly, for somebody born now, or even two or three, five years ago, ten years ago, they cannot believe how our country was, particularly in the South. And I teach a couple of courses where we really are focused on the Civil Rights Movement, but we start with slavery and work toward the Civil Rights Movement. That’s the Race, Religion and Rebellion class. And I know, I mean, the students just are in shock that the things they learn about were happening not only of course slavery and the horrors of the Reconstruction, Jim Crow, but here’s a person who’s still living, me, and quite a bit older than them. But still, someone contemporary to some extent, that I lived through what I share with them and what our documentaries share with them.

And they’re like, God, this is unbelievable. So it’s wonderful to share that history with people one-on-one or in classes or seminars that I lead and stuff. Because it’s so important, I think, for people to know how our country has progressed from just unbelievable treatment of people of color, African Americans, Native Americans, Asian Americans, the Chinese particularly, Mexican Americans.

Because if you don’t have a course that focuses you on this, you just have no idea. And one of the reasons it’s so important is so we never go back there. We never ever. So when somebody like the guy who did the shooting at the Holocaust Museum and we learn about how he hated Jews and hated Blacks.





And I’ve been reading and hearing that since Obama was elected, there has been a rise of these hate groups. So it’s very important never to forget what those groups are capable of, the killing of Dr. Tiller even. There is the abortion provider. There is a strand in our culture that goes very deep. I hope for the most part it’s been buried, but when something like what happened at that museum, or people hanging nooses. And I still see the Confederate flag on many trucks and especially driving through Palatka and places where the Klan is very strong and then you got the Minute Men. It’s so important to teach all of our young people about this history so they won’t be attracted to this kind of stuff. But at the same time, I think that we have made so much progress too. I mean, when Obama was running, I was saying, well, I’m not going to get involved because this is impossible. He doesn’t have a chance [Laughter], I mean, I was like, I didn’t believe it. I was like, “Are you kidding? A president? Black president? Not in America. Not now. Not in my lifetime. It’s not possible.” And what certainly made me say, well wait a minute, was Iowa. I said, “He won Iowa?” I was like, “But Iowa is majority White.” I mean, wait a minute. Really? So then I started saying, “Could it be possible?” So I was definitely a doubter, a big doubter, that it was remotely possible. So, I think you know that clearly there had to have been, and has been without question, a major change in many parts. I mean, he carried Florida. I’m sure it had a lot to do with the Latino vote as well as the Black vote.

But still, carried North Carolina. I think he carried Virginia too. So he did carry some Southern states in addition to Midwestern and Western and Northern. So that bodes well. But it was obviously the people got out there. It was grassroots.





And I just hope we don’t lose that, to become complacent. Oh we elected him, let him handle it. No, no, we’ve got to still be out there. I know I’m very involved with the Labor Party and our big thing is healthcare. I’m, to some extent, involved with the Peace Movement because I’d like to see the wars in Afghanistan end, and Iraq. So I have remained active in various movements all of my adult life. I think it would be impossible not to be after having sort of cut my teeth on the Civil Rights Movement and to know that people can change things. They can organize and bring about change that—that’s what, to me, is the promise of this country. Not that it has always been so great, but that what was enshrined by the founding fathers gave us the tools to expand democracy. Because clearly in the beginning it was very narrow. It was only for White male landowners who could vote, who could do anything. It didn’t include women of any kind. It certainly didn’t include the Native people, the African Americans—so we talk about the Constitution and this wonderful stuff, but it was a tool. Because it wasn’t a reality when they did it. It was a reality for the men who brought it into being. But everything has had to open it. So you know the Women’s Movement to get the right to vote for women, the Labor Movement to get rid of—you had to be a landowner to vote even as a White man, because poor Whites had no democracy in the beginning. So it’s just been opening this thing up, opening it up. And the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence have been the tools that enabled that to happen.

And Dr. King was a master at using those documents. You promised this and you haven’t delivered it. And I think people have been and continue to be moved by it. And I think Obama is just great at utilizing. It’s like this is what we say we





believe in. I just heard him today talking about healthcare. We as a nation, we believe that everybody should have healthcare. And I was like, really? Well I hope so, but he’s moving us there, just like King was moving us. I think that’s what’s great about the country, is the potential that has been more and more realized for all people. And I think it has to happen for gay and lesbian people. They have to be given full equal rights to marriage and all of these things. So we constantly are expanding democracy.

	C:	Final question: in what ways does the struggle for people of color continue today and in what ways does it differ?

	S:	Oh, I think it definitely continues and I think we are not, for the most part, dealing with the overt segregation. I think all of that overt stuff has been dealt with, but we still have just incredible differences, for instance, in unemployment. I mean, there’s a major—when you do hear the real unemployment figures for African Americans, it’s sometimes three times. I think the latest I heard was that the real figure is twenty-seven percent or the health disparities, educational disparities are still—and we’re more segregated in our schools then we were a decade ago. And the difference in the schools is quite phenomenal, because of the resources. If the school’s funding is based on the tax base of the neighborhoods in which it’s just—so levels of poverty. So we still got a lot of disparities that really go all the way back to segregation, slavery. We’ve never overcome those, because the nation, I think, has never made a commitment to really make this thing equal.

Because I think the period of Johnson and the Great Society was on its way, but even when he was doing that, it was being undermined by the Vietnam War,





which was taking so much money. And then once the Republicans came in and started fighting against the whole idea of affirmative action, which was to try and equalize some of the disparities. And I think almost now, almost nobody wants to support anything related to affirmative action—even Black people.

	C:	Which is funny because we were learning about in my class about how the largest demographic that benefits from affirmative action is White women.

	S:	Yes.



	C:	So why, every time when you like hear Time magazine put a cover story on it is there a Black man on the cover?

	S:	Exactly. And that helps, I think, to make it not acceptable. But the people who have benefited the most have been White women. Yeah. So we still have quite a lot to deal with. But by and large, it’s so much better than it was and I’m a person who affirms that. There’s no more back of the bus. There’s no more climbing up the outside of the building to get into [Laughter] the movies. There’s no more one day a week at the zoo. There’s no more you can’t go to the library. So that had to be addressed, because that was so horrible for your self-esteem and your sense of who you are and all of that. But we still have major hurdles before us.

	C:	Dr. Simmons, I want to thank you so much for doing this interview. S:	Oh, well thank you.

	C:	And I would love to conduct another time with you and continue on it. S:	Okay, we can do it. Yes.

[End of interview]





	Audit edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, May 19, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019