AAHP 586; Fox; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 586 Kathleen Fox 00-00-0000 Interviewed by Janet Matthews on unknown date

92 minutes | 44 pages



Abstract: In this interview, several former students of the Williams Primary Academy in Fort Meyers discuss the layout of the school. The project is part of an effort to recreate the William’s Academy building in a historically accurate manner. Interviewees discuss the location of classrooms, offices, doorways, and other features of the building.





Keywords: [Fort Meyers, architecture, historic building, education, Williams Academy, segregation]



AAHP 586

Interviewee: Kathleen Fox Interviewer: Janet Snyder Matthews Date: Unknown

	M:	As I said before, in an effort to determine the period and degree of the restoration for the Williams Academy, you know, when we restore it, the Lee County Black History Society is collecting info on the school’s physical appearance throughout its history. My first question is, when did you attend Williams Academy? Do you remember what year? And if you don’t remember the year, about how old were you?

	F:	Well, I started the school when I was like six.



	M:	Six years old. And you were at the Williams Academy at age six. And you went from what age to what age?

	F:	Well—



	M:	So that’s 1916, wow. To what grade did you go to? F:	Oh, I finished eighth grade.

	M:	Okay. 1924. Do you recall how many people attended class with you? How many students were in the Williams Academy?

	F:	Well, I’d have to think, it was Kenneth Louden. But most of my people that were at the school with me left Fort Meyers or passed away. It’s not—Also, Oma Hodges.

	M:	How many people were in the entire building? Like at the very beginning, were there like fifty students? A hundred students?

	F:	Should’ve been about a hundred because in our class, we had seventeen. M:	You had seventeen students?

	F:	Mmhm, it was seventeen of us.



	M:	But you think there were how many students, total?





	F:	Let’s see, there was Kenneth Louden and— M:	And how many teachers?

	F:	Let’s see, there was James R. Dixon. M:	James R. Dixon?

	F:	Mmhm, James Robert Dixon. That was one principal we had. We had— I’m thinking about people beside me, but these are people I was thinking about that was in my class, Hampton Wright and Kenneth Louden.

	M:	You had about seventeen students in your class? F:	Yeah.

	M:	And how many people in the entire school?



	F:	There must have been about six or ten. Seems our school was divided. And we weren’t like these children out on the streets. You went to school, you went back home.

	M:	There were seventeen students in the entire school? F:	No!

	M:	I’m saying in the entire building.



	F:	Oh. I don’t know, it was about twelve or thirteen, about seven—now twelve and thirteen was small children, the larger children was about—

	M:	Like a hundred students? A hundred and fifty students? F:	Yeah, about like that from the eighty to the twelfth grade. M:	So they had about a hundred fifty, hundred students?

	F:	About a hundred and fifty. M:	How many teachers?





	F:	Oh, let’s see—



	M:	As you were growing up, to teach all those children?



	F:	I’m searching, I forgot their names. It was about ten teachers. M:	Ten teachers. And that was constantly, during the school year? F:	Right. We didn’t go until tenth grade at first. And then—

	M:	The school was open from what grade to what grade? I mean, from 1916 when you first got there, I thought kindergarteners and first graders, I thought they went to the primary schools—

	F:	Well, we had a primary at the KP Hall.



	M:	Yeah, I thought you went there kindergarten, first grade? F:	Mmhm.

	M:	But you said you went there when you were six to go to Williams Academy? F:	Well, I was about six or seven at the time. I wasn’t no younger than that.

	M:	And so you went to the KP Hall, this like nursery school—



	F:	Well, when I was going to school, I was going to school I wasn’t going to nursery school. I might have a nursery enough for that.

	M:	And did you go to the KP school, KP building?



	F:	Yeah, our first grade, I think I was in about third grade when we went that way to the KP Hall.

	M:	Third grade you went to the KP Hall?



	F:	Well, because you see, our class, it was so large and they had to divide us up.



And—



	M:	You attended the Williams Academy. Where? Cranford and Lemon?





	F:	Yeah. Williams Primary.



	M:	You called it Williams Primary?



	F:	Yeah, that was Williams Primary. That was the first, second, and third grade. Then, after third grade, we went to fourth grade, I think it was. We went to a school, KP Hall was called Sanford and right by the railroad. Williams Academy was on the corner of Lime and Sanford.

	M:	Lemon?



	F:	Lemon and Cranford and Anderson, see, the school was in the corner.



	M:	I have a picture of it right here actually. I’m gonna start asking you about what the inside of the building looked like. I have a map here and your mission, this is where, is to fill it in. Which area was the entrance, did you enter on Cranford Street or on Lemon Street? Do you recall?

	F:	I went to Cranford.



	M:	This is 1926. This is the other. And did your school look this shape or did it look this shape? This is from 1914. This is from 1917. Do any of these shapes look familiar to you?

	F:	Now this shape look familiar.



	M:	That’s September 1914. So this is Sanford, this is Lemon, where was the entrance? How did you get in there?

	F:	This is Sanford? Okay, all right, we would cross—let’s see—now, this is—



	M:	Was the entrance right there? And here’s steps, these are supposed to be steps. F:	Mmhm. It looks like that, let me visualize it.

	M:	So, you’re right across the railroad track?





	F:	Yeah.



	M:	And the railroad track was on Lemon or Cranford? F:	It was on Lemon.

	M:	Okay, so here’s the train. F:	Yeah.

	M:	Now, where—Cranford is right here, where is the entrance to the— F:	Let me see. Now, this here, this is outgoing.

	M:	Here’s the railroad tracks, you said. F:	Okay, this is the railroad?

	M:	No.



	F:	See, now the railroad comes right cross Cranford, and goes on down to Anderson.

	M:	This is Lemon, is it going down Cranford? F:	Well, going this way.

	M:	I thought you said it went down Lemon. I’m trying to find out where the entrance to the school is. We’re going to do the exterior first. So, where was the school entrance? I also have this big map. We’re thinking that this was the entrance right here. Does that look familiar to you? I have some pictures, too. Here’s the school. So, the front of the building faced Cranford?

	F:	Right, Cranford. It had two doors, Cranford, and this door here but they didn’t hardly use this door. But I didn’t really go to that door over there because see, that was the—

	M:	So this part was facing Cranford.





	F:	Mmhm.



	M:	Because we have this other door in the back—



	F:	See, now that other door in the back would hit where the people lived up in there, see that would be the back of the railroad.

	M:	And is this the correct door in the back right here?



	F:	I imagine so, because see that would be the correct door because the railroad came right on the other side.

	M:	Okay, so it was directly across because this was the entrance, I’ve been told by two people. Is this the correct entrance?

	F:	No, see you coming up from Cranford and you’re going in the entrance this way.



The railroad is right behind that.



	M:	Okay.



	F:	The building. Okay, the Banks that lived right here, this was the railroad and the Banks lived right here in this house.

	M:	Okay, so you’re coming in, and is there a porch on the outside of the building to get in? Is there a porch?

	F:	To get in the house? No, they had lots of trees and shrubberies and stuff like that.

	M:	So then how do you get into the building? Are there steps? F:	Yeah. There’s steps.

	M:	Do the steps lead directly inside the building?



	F:	Mmhm, yeah. You’d just go ahead up the steps just like— M:	How many steps were there?





	F:	Must’ve been about two or three. M:	Two or three steps, okay.

	F:	About two or three, no more.



	M:	Was there an inside stairway and an outside stairway, or was there just one stairway?

	F:	Just one stairway.



	M:	And where was the stairway? F:	Well, now it would go this way. M:	Was it inside the building?

	F:	Mmhm.



	M:	Okay. And was the door to get in— F:	You mean at KP Hall?

	M:	No, no everything is about the William’s Academy.



	F:	Oh, Williams Academy. Oh, I was talking like the stairways—



	M:	Okay, now you get up here, where’s the chapel. Point out where the chapel is.



Here, on this. This is for you to say whatever you want to say and I will draw what you want on here, okay?

	F:	Okay, this is the second floor right here.



	M:	Okay, now stairs. Now, you get to the top, you said it goes all the way to the wall?

	F:	Yeah.



	M:	It goes all the way to the corner.



	F:	Mmhm, because you’d sit to the windows and you’d look out the windows.





	M:	And where are the windows? No, point here. F:	Yeah, right there.

	M:	Pretend this is where they sat inside here, now where are the windows? Are they here?

	F:	The windows are here. M:	The windows are here?

	F:	Mmhm, we don’t have windows in the front, on the side.



	M:	This is the front of the building; this is the entrance. You just went up the staircase. Are there windows on the wall?

	F:	No, not going up the staircase. This is beside the staircase, we going up here.



We can’t see no windows until you get up here. And then you see the windows is here.

	M:	Right here? And they come where to where, did they go all the way across the front of the building?

	F:	The side, they didn’t go to the front. M:	Do they go from here to here?

	F:	Yeah, windows on the side. On that side, there were windows across the front. M:	There was windows all the way across the front?

	F:	Mmhm. And see, if you come up them stairs, you would come up to a building, you know, coming into 54. See, that’s the room. This upstairs.

	M:	And are there any walls up here? Where’s the chapel? F:	The chapel is this entire part over here.

	M:	This part?





F:  Mmhm. Because, see up over here, this side is a classroom. M:  And where’s the wall? Is there a wall dividing the classroom? F:   Yeah. Wall goes right here.

M:  Like this? And does it go all the way across? F:  Mmhm.

M:   Okay, so if there’s a wall here—



	F:	See now, this up here takes care of all the bottom part of the— M:	We’re just talking about the second floor now.

F:   Mmhm, yeah. The second.



	M:	Okay, the chapel is over here— [Break in interview] [New interviewee, Jacob Johnson]

	J:	What do we have here now? M:	This is the back.

	J:	This is the back.



	M:	This is a better picture. J:	Okay.

	M:	This is the back. This is when it’s been moved. This was before it was moved this was after it was moved. So this is right here.

	J:	The bathrooms, the restrooms were here. And as you entered here—I guess this is the same thing as the front step.

	M:	Here, draw everything you think that you saw in there. Where you think the windows were—this is it right here.





	J:	I got this but—actually this doesn’t seem to be the same thing as it could be. It could be the same thing. But to me, there was a hallway, let’s say up the center of the building. There were two classrooms.

	M:	I have a picture of that.



	J:	The doorways were opposite each other right in this area. M:	Here? This is what you’re describing.

	J:	My point is this was changed after they stopped using the building for classrooms.

	M:	Okay, so this was a hallway, and was there a window here? J:	There’s the hallway, there was a door here at the back.

	M:	Put a D for door. Okay.



	J:	There were about five windows, I’d say about—I imagine about five windows along—they were equally done.

	M:	Put windows. We think those are original, those are one of the few original things, the windows.

	J:	I don’t think they were original. M:	You don’t.

J:  No, in fact I know they’re not. Because what I was telling you the other evening… Okay, this was a two-story portion of this building. There was a classroom on the first floor, classroom on the second floor.

M:   Just this front part right here?



J:   Mmhm. This part, this was Cranford, this is the front of the building here.





	M:	This says this was one story and then it says, if you look very closely, it says around here this is two-story. So the porch is one story.

	J:	The porch is one story and this was also, but it didn’t cover that much room. This was a single classroom on the rear of the building, first floor.

	M:	It was just one story.



	J:	One story and that was because that was my second-grade classroom. We had to go around the building to enter.

	M:	We’re gonna expand this line in the back so we can do some drawings. Okay? J:	Actually, this more or less sat—there was another thing in here like this that was,

I would say, an added something that was added on. This one room here.



	M:	This was added on? Here, you can do anything you want and put all your descriptions, drawings.

	J:	This was more or less—



	M:	And which year do you remember this from? Could you write that down? J:	This was [19]25, [19]26.

	M:	You were born in what year?



	J:	I wasn’t born here, I came here—



	M:	I know but if we do you were born and then we just add the age that you were when you went there—

	J:	Well, I’m trying to get there. It was [19]23, [19]24. This would have been [19]25, [19]26, the year that I was in the classroom. It was my second-grade year, [19]25, [19]26. There was a stairway here, and there may have been—





	M:	You can draw a drawing of the second floor if you want, right next to it. We’ll go first floor. And then we can just transfer this over here.

	J:	Let’s do this part. This is the Front of the building, right? M:	I don’t know it’s all up to you.

	J:	Here well let’s do it. I’m still gonna use this.



	M:	We’ll just put identifying lines. This is Cranford right here. J:	This is Cranford.

	M:	Right here, according to the insurance. Excuse me, this—no. J:	This is Cranford here. This is the porch.

	M:	This is Cranford.



	J:	And I’ll kind of keep it together a little better.



	M:	This is Anderson. I’ll put Anderson. And this is— J:	Lemon.

	M:	Lemon.



	J:	I think this was like this and over. Now this would be the two classrooms that I said—

	M:	Put two classrooms outside or you can put an arrow to it in case you want to draw inside of it.

	J:	Hm.



	M:	Is this what we originally have now or is it this part? J:	This is original. This is what we had in the beginning.

	M:	Okay, I know but what do we have now on the sketch. What part of the building do you think is sitting? Is it this big hall?





	J:	I would just say this part.



	M:	Because Henry Rodson was saying he thought it was a small part. J:	Well, it could have been I don’t know.

	M:	It seems like—



	J:	I don’t remember when it was moved. Actually, the building may not have been that large really. It may have looked huge at that time to me. But basically, looking at this, I think it was maybe larger. But then with the porch across here. This is entirely—this gives you a different picture because it’s the same old story to begin with. But in comparison here, this may not have been as large. But I did want to give you a quick picture of what—this was a first and second floor. It’s this part, the main part. First and second floor, this was the two-story part. This was two-story.

	M:	Two-story.



	J:	This was a single-story classroom. M:	Single story.

	J:	Single-story classroom. There was a doorway right here. M:	Right here?

	J:	Yes, somewhere like that. But it may have been in the center, straight in the center, probably was.

	M:	Right there? Okay.



	J:	There was a stairway. Okay, let’s say this was a doorway here and a kind of landing, a doorway to this part. This is the auditorium up here.

	M:	Did it go over all the way?





	J:	No, no just here.



	M:	Just this little.



	J:	Just right on the corner. The stairway went up to this landing. M:	Okay, there’s a stairway right here?

	J:	Yeah, this stairway. M:	To a landing, okay.

	J:	And there was a doorway there where you could enter the second story from— M:	There was a—

	J:	Door there and over here there was a stage. There was a stage in this area. All this is second floor.

	M:	Okay, and we’ll do the first floor. You came up and there’s a stage right here? J:	There was a stage in this area, yes.

	M:	Does it go like to that and go?



	J:	Yeah, roughly I would say. I think it ended on the stage but I don’t know, there was a doorway and there was a stage here because this was where they had the assemblies, in this room. It was an open room and I’m not sure—

	M:	This is 1925, 1926?



	J:	Yeah, you can go back farther than that because that’s the way it was in [19]23 when I first started there.

	M:	Stairway to second floor, okay.



	J:	Now there’s this entry to this classroom—I don’t think it was in the venter, it may have been. Because I remember the teacher standing up here, this is the second floor, I was in the third grade here on the second floor.





	M:	Do you remember where the windows were? J:	The windows were on either side.

	M:	How many windows do you remember?



	J:	I don’t know at least for I’d say, and they were on both sides. And I think a similar thing was on the first floor.

	M:	and how about the blackboard?



	J:	The blackboard—I’d say two sides. I can remember we stood here to do reading and spelling.

	M:	In front of the windows?



	J:	Our back was to the windows. M:	You think that was right here?

	J:	Also, the blackboards could have been at this end of the building or it could have been in there.

	M:	But you don’t recall? J:	I don’t recall really.

	M:	Okay, but we’re still on the second floor. J:	Yeah.

	M:	Do you remember how many chairs were laid out?



	J:	I don’t know. Here, I don’t know about this chapel assembly but I know in this room and that room we had the regular desk with the inkwells, with the groove for your pencil, you know.

	M:	Like the single with the little?





	J:	Your seat was the guy behind you desktop. With his books. The guy in front of you, his seat was your desktop. And they all had inkwells at that time. We had writing, penmanship, we had to write in ink with a staff-type thing, I remember that specifically. Now, do you have a question here?

	M:	The seats. We want to do where the blackboards were—the windows, do you remember where the windows were on the second floor?

	J:	On the second floor?



	M:	How about in this big area right here? J:	Now, getting to the steps—

	M:	I have the steps right here.



	J:	This is further, this is the rear of the building. The other night I was trying to tell you—Okay, here’s the front of the building.

	M:	Okay, could you draw the doorway?



	J:	The doorway is here. And the stairway for the upper story was along this wall.



Now, this is the porch.



	M:	The porch went all the way around like that?



	J;	No. You had a step here, you had about three or four steps here, porch. M:	To get to the platform?

	J:	Now, when you go on the porch, you go upstairs, you went through this door— and this was the only door and there were no windows here—I don’t remember windows at all. Just went up to the second floor. There was a doorway here. This is to the first floor, okay? This is to go upstairs, second floor. And here you would have the same arrangement, a few steps here—





	M:	Are we going back or are we on the outside?



	J:	We going into the first floor. This would be to enter the first floor, you went in this doorway.

	M:	Okay, and it went down this way? J:	It’s an open room again.

	M:	Which way is the steps going? Is it going on the side or straight down? J:	Here, you just have steps here. From the ground to the first floor.

	M:	It’s going outside, okay. Okay, it’s outside. J:	Yeah, it’s not going upstairs.

	M:	So this was basically an in and this is an out? Okay. J:	I don’t know, I think that’s gonna confuse you now. M:	No, I understand.

	J:	Okay, that would be the same as this. The steps of the porch, across the porch, you enter the stairway to go upstairs.

	M:	Okay, now the other side, upstairs. How did the porch extend? Was the porch just like this?

	J:	Yeah, right. The entire front of the building.



	M:	Okay, porch. Okay, stairs, got you. And this is going outside to a small platform? J:	There’s nothing here.

	M:	It just goes down to the dirt? It just goes down to the ground?



J:  This is from the ground to the first floor and this is up on a—I guess that was a good three feet off the ground, the building itself. So you only had three or four stringers on your step.





	M:	Okay, so this goes from the second down to the bottom? J:	Yeah.

	M:	Second to first floor.



	J:	No, no, no. When you say second, what do you mean? The second floor? M:	Yeah.

	J:	No, no, no. This is your second floor. This one. That’s why I said why do you write all that? It’s only about three string there.

	M:	Okay, so we’re only talking about the second floor right now. If I showed you a picture—

	J:	Okay then let’s just start all over. Because I was telling you, when I searched the building—

	M:	But you’re saying this is going to the second floor? J:	This is the second floor.

	M:	Right, I’ll draw another.



	J:	I thought you were finished when you said about the seating, that’s—I thought you were through up on the second floor.

	M:	So there’s another one, two, three. Okay, this is first floor. Is that what you think?



Okay, we got the porch, okay, and this is one, two, three.



	J;	Yeah, something like that. I think I can get you a better idea.



	M:	Okay, do you remember any windows on this side, blackboards?



	J:	I do not but I’m sure there were windows there. I don’t know how—but there were no windows across the front, as I remember.

	M:	Do you remember stoves on the second floor?





	J:	It seems as if there were a small wood burning on the second—but I don’t remember stoves anywhere else.

	M:	Blackboards? You don’t remember the blackboards in this room? J:	Okay, I remember in the first floor here.

	M:	This is the third grade you told me was on—



	J:	It’s the second floor, third grade. One thing, int hose days you didn’t wander around and go out of wherever you—couldn’t do what you wanted to do. There was always something—

	M:	Oh, I didn’t do what I wanted to do either. I don’t understand people pointing guns and savaging each other.

	J:	It happens. Especially today, anything.



	M:	Do you remember where the furniture was laid out? This big space, was there anything in this big space?

	J:	Yeah, there was seating in here. I don’t know if there were benches—I really believe there were desks but I don’t know if they were tied down to the floor or if they were moved. But as I remember, this was like a—if you remember the days of the open classroom where there were two classes, maybe. Somebody came over with that idea several years ago and there were two groups in one room that were with two teachers or maybe more. So that’s what this was. The first floor was open and the top floor was an open type of thing, but they had several classes in there as I understand. I was never in a class in the first or second floor in these areas. I was in second grade here, and that was only one story. This was the single story. And at the top of the roof here is where I said this little





landing where you could go up and go into here or go through here to get—this would be on the second story. Here, you went in to go to the first story.

	M:	So you could have to ways to get up? So you had a front way— J:	Front way up the stairs.

	M:	And a back way. And did the students enter through this way and when they were done go down that way? Or it really didn’t matter?

	J:	No. I could—



	M:	This was like a fire exit or something?



	J:	Perhaps so, we didn’t think of it that way in those days. But I guess.



	M:	In case something is burning, you know, you get the children out of there. J:	You have another route out to go. If it was here—

	M:	Okay, now we’re on the first floor. Now, describe anything you remember.



Windows? Blackboards?



	J:	I think the first floor they did probably the same as this one. This is the second story—

	M:	We have to add this little room here. And what was this little room used for back here?

	J:	I think probably on the side of the classroom. At least one side or on the back. I don’t recall, it seems as if the Black boys were in the front and the teacher sat.

	M:	This is the little extended room.



	J:	This is the first floor? Okay, I tell you the doorway was in the center of the room.



	M:	Okay, you said there’s a doorway right here on the back. Was there also a doorway to get in here through the main room?





	J:	To get into the downstairs floor, it probably was.



	M:	No I’m saying because you’re coming in from the back was there also a way to get in the main room here?

	J:	I think so, maybe in the corner here someplace to get in on the first floor. M:	Okay, and what grade was this?

	J:	I heard my brother; I was talking with him about this and he says that he remembers going in through here and entering also here. So it had to be a doorway somewhere I don’t know where really.

	M:	And what was this room? This was another classroom? J:	This was a classroom; this was the first floor, right?

	M:	This is all—



	J:	To get in this classroom, we entered here and walked I guess a kind of a hallway or an opening there and you came into this room.

	M:	Could you draw the hallway? Would you remember?



	J:	I don’t remember ever being in this room on the first floor in this part. M:	Well then just draw what you remember on the first floor.

	J:	I think the doors was here and I believe the blackboard was in here and the windows were—

	M:	The blackboard was right here?



	J:	I think so. It seemed as if the second floor, or this room here. M:	And you think there was one up here, too?

	J:	Yeah, same thing. I believe. M:	Okay.





	J:	I think the windows the rain would have been pretty much the same on the first floor as they were on the second. As I can remember, I didn’t pay that much attention.

	M:	And you don’t remember any windows facing the main entrance? J:	Not in the front.

	M:	This was the main entrance. Okay, so we’re getting in here, do you remember any windows here or here?

	J:	I don’t remember windows on the side of the building but there probably was. I mean, I just can’t visualize it. But it seems this was a sitting room on the second floor and it seems that there were windows, I imagine windows on the first floor too. But there was a lady I was going to talk to hopefully—I don’t know her address but she was—

	M:	I thought somebody possibly had pictures but I can’t find—did you know Robert Brown? [Break in interview]

[New interviewee]



	M:	Kelly Smith, July 5th, 1995. I’m gonna try. It’s darker maybe? I have a pencil. S:	That won’t do.

	M:	I sharpened it too. It’s a real pencil, here.



	S:	I’m doing it this way because this is the best way that— M:	This is Cranford, this is Lemon, this is Anderson.

	S:	This got to come out. There were no walls. Okay, this door in the middle was a little double door.

	M:	Can you speak up a little louder?





	S:	Okay. This was a double door in the center facing Cranford, double door. Okay, this was not on here, on the Lemon Street side.

	M:	The porch? The porch overhand? The roof overhang or what?



	S:	The roof overhang is as-is as the drawing show. This was the steps, and around this fence there was a gate right in front of that door.

	M:	Okay, right in front of the center of the stairs there was a gate?



	S:	A gate. Okay, now over here where this is, this was down to the front. This addition went down to the front.

	M:	Draw where you think. S:	[Inaudible 44:43].

	M:	So you don’t think it was—



	S:	No, I know where it was because I talked with Gerdine Atkins, and she and I, we all went to school there together.

	M:	This is the porch, remember?



	S:	Yeah, this is the porch. Come in off the porch, you go down this little walkway here, into this—

	M:	The front door now is more to the center than to the left?



	S:	It was directly in the center like that. Now, this was a door opening here. And this went into this was an office and a classroom.

	M:	Like the teachers’ lounge and the principal’s office? S:	No, it was a classroom and the principal’s office. [Break in interview]

	M:	5 July 1995. It came back to you in a dream?





	S:	No, I talked to a lady, Geraldine Atkins. She also went there; we all went there together. Jacob was right about one or two of these things. Now all this was out, this was one big old room.

	M:	On the first floor. S:	On the first floor.

	M:	There were no classrooms on the first floor.



	S:	There was one classroom, one big classroom. Two teachers taught in there and then the third teacher taught over here in this hallway and classroom.

	M:	So there were no walls on the first floor.



	S:	No, not inside. So if you make this. A box, you know what I mean, make this a box—

	M:	Just X that out.



	S:	Now, over here was a window. And down here was a window.



	M:	Are the windows still the same? I have a picture of one of your windows. S:	Right. Now, there was a window there and a window back here.

	M:	Why did you think that there were corridors and different classrooms before?



	S:	Because I thought I remembered—I wasn’t quite sure because you know I came back and said I think that there were some classrooms. You understand?

Because of the three teachers, Mrs. Bevis, Mrs. Session, and Mrs. Anderson. And I was in turn, thinking, you know, being five years of age, you know, so I was in turn thinking that there were classrooms. But there were no classrooms. Like Gerdie said, “There weren’t no classrooms, it was just one big opening downstairs.” And one big opening upstairs.





M:   Where was the opening upstairs? Were the stairs still on the back?



S:  The stairs went in from Lemon Street, matter of fact, they went up from Lemon Street and went back behind the building and you went in the building from this big room in the rear.

M:  So on the other side of Lemon in the very back. Are those stairs still correct back there? Because you have these stairs on the second floor—

S:   Right.



	M:	Is that still correct? S:	Yeah that’s right.

	M:	And they went up to approximately the center of the building? S:	In the center of the building and went right in the door.

	M:	And the first floor didn’t have any walls?



	S:	No, it didn’t have no walls. When you walk in the door here, okay, walk in— M:	And there were two double doors?

	S:	Double doors in the front over here.



	M:	And you said they were wood double doors?



	S:	Right, right. And they were not solid double doors, they had went to the bottom and glass little four by six or four by fours—back when that—no, it wasn’t no condition.

	M:	You can draw a diagram on the back of this if you want. S:	This the windows.

	M:	That’s the door, door window? S:	Okay.





	M:	Were there any other entrances besides the front and the back?



	S:	If the building had caught fire they would have trapped us there, we’ve had to jump out the window.

	M:	Jump out the window?



	S:	We’d have had to jump out the window. Especially if the dire would have been at the closest staircase, because there wasn’t no way out from up there.

	M:	Do you recall there ever being a fire in the building?



	S:	No, there wasn’t no fire. They didn’t have code out here. M:	You don’t know if some of that happened—

	S:	Fortunately, it did not burn, it did not ever happen.



	M:	Somebody mentioned to me that there was a fire in there they couldn’t use the first floor because there was a fire.

	S:	I don’t know anything about a fire being there. That’s not to my knowledge. M:	From your reconstruction?

	S:	I am now. But I never had a [inaudible 52:19] M:	You had a what?

	S:	A bad—I won’t say bad—but I can’t coordinate drawing too well. M:	Just do the best that you can.

	S:	I can look at it like blueprints or whatever, but to sit down and draw—



	M:	Just do the best you can. I appreciate you trying to draw it because it’s hard to physically draw when I don’t know what somebody needs.

	S:	Now—



	M:	That’s one door.





	S:	That’s one door with the knob in the center, you just had to turn that knob and open that door to walk in.

	M:	And was the other one matching on the other side? S:	Other side, same thing. This is a solid panel.

	M:	What color was it? Do you remember? Was it just plain wood? Unpainted?



	S:	I believe it was painted but I can’t remember about the color. Okay, now that was the door. Window. And then had glass over that section up top.

	M:	And there were two doors just like the one? S:	Two double doors.

	M:	Okay. And there still was a porch, roof overhang. S:	Yes.

	M:	Now was the roof—did it extend all the way to the end of the porch or did it go halfway or what?

	S:	Well, come here! That’s my son. This is Cathleen, the lady called the other day about me. Cathleen, that’s Hardy. Okay, all right. Now, I don’t—the roof did not extend over the side of the building. The roof went out to the front of the building. This was straight up.

	M:	Mmhm, but I’m saying the overhang, because you said it sits— S:	Overhang extended out.

	M:	Six feet?



	S:	About six feet about.



	M:	Which was as far as the porch went out?





	S:	Went as far as the porch went out. Okay, and but it did not extend over to the side like you got it here.

	M:	I just did that so I could understand there was a porch. S:	Okay, good.

	M:	Or a porch roof overhang.



	S:	Okay, now there were in this big, okay this the downstairs—there was a window there.

	M:	And was this addition, was this one or two stories? S:	That was one story.

	M:	This was just one story right here? One? Just put one. So the small room on the right-hand side is only one story?

	S:	Small room on the—opposite the one on the left-hand side. M:	Do you recall going up to the second floor today or not?

	S:	The only thing I recall about the second floor was the steps because those steps lead me back.

	M:	So you recall only how many windows on the side?



	S:	Two windows, only two windows. We had a good time going over this thing Sunday evening, I believe, this lady and I.

	M:	Oh really? Too bad you didn’t bring a pencil and a piece of paper.



	S:	No. Okay, these are the two windows on the south, and also there were two windows upstairs, directly over the second floor.

	M:	They were directly over..



	S:	The bottom ones. You understand?





	M:	And there were two windows here, were there any in the front?



	S:	These two windows here, this is bottom and top windows. Now, there was a window in the back of this first-floor teacher room. See, this is more or less an office and a—

	M:	An office and a classroom? S:	A classroom.

	M:	Well, sir, was there any way to get out of this room right here? S:	No, you go and cut back out this way, out this door here.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	You come out of this door, you go back there— M:	Okay, and that’s to that hallway?

	S:	Yeah, little hallway going down there.



	M:	Is there still this hallway here or not? Because you didn’t want the hallway.



Because you remember coming in the two double doors, here’s the two double doors right here, D, D, and there’s no windows—

	S:	When you walk off the porch and into the building, you see this big opening, this big classroom.

	M:	There’s no walls?



	S:	No, no walls. Now, in this one over here, this classroom and office, you know, it was attached to the building on the south side.

	M:	On the south side?



	S:	Which in the Martin Luther King side.





	M:	You don’t think this room was more in the center? You think it was further up? So they have back stairs and they have this room more in the center.

	S:	All right, well, let’s put it more in the center. I would not disagree with this. I won’t disagree with that, but that’s the way you got in there. You got in here from—

	M:	And this is actually from the insurance people from 1926.



	S:	Okay, right. So let’s keep it in this dimension. So this room here would come down. See, the reason I put it up there like that was because this was already drawn here.

	M:	I can redraw that.



	S:	All right, redraw it. Why don’t you come on around here and sit down?



	M:	I’ll do a quick sketch. [Long pause] Do you want windows right here in the center?

	S:	[Talking on the phone]



	M:	You say there’s a window in the annex?



	S:	One window, yeah, two windows in there. Another window in the front. M:	There wasn’t? Was there a window here?

	S:	Window here.



	M:	How about the blackboards? So they just put desks in this entire thing and had sections where everybody would sit? How did that work out?

	S:	Well, a little opening, an aisle.



	M:	And where was the entryway in this room? Where’s the wall? Right here? S:	The center.

	M:	The center. And did you ever go in this room?





	S:	I remember, that was in this one here. I think that was in the second grade, all the head-starters and we had this big opening out there.

	M:	Do you remember anything being in there? S:	I remember the chairs and the benches.

	M:	And the teacher’s desk? Where is the teacher sitting? S:	Up front. Right up front. I think Mrs. Anderson—

	M:	This is her desk right here?



	S:	Something like that. And there’s one back in this area. M:	There’s another teacher here?

	S:	Yeah, see, there’s two teachers—they would kind of have things sectioned off like they do now. Just more or less the teachers were—you could hear everything that was being said from one teacher to another but it wasn’t disturbing enough to where it would be distracting, that you wouldn’t be taught. Because as far back as I can remember, you only had three classes. All three classes were primary and first. Upstairs, before they opening up the Dunbar, it went to eighth grade.

	M:	So it went primary, first, and after that second to what?



	S:	Second and then it was more or less general education. What I mean is, it only went as high as eighth grade. And after eighth grade you had to go out of town to another school. Like they had one, Bawlin Higgs I think it was in Jacksonville.

And there’s another school. But that’s where most of the kids when they finished eighth grade, they would go off and go to school to get an advanced education.





Because I remember Mr. Barker paying back either the principal eventually became to be the principal. And he left there and went to—

	M:	You can sit back in the chair.



	S:	No, I don’t sit back. He left and went to Alabama. He was a Tuskegee man, matter of fact, I been to Tuskegee. So, when they transferred all of the students from second through twelfth, it only left first—what we called primary and first grade. Over at Williams Primary.

	M:	And then you went to the Dunbar school? S:	The next year after first grade—

	M:	After first grade?



	S:	Mmhm, you went to second at Dunbar.



	M:	Do you remember moving the school from over here to— S:	I remember moving that section over there.

	M:	And what year did they move? Do you remember what grade you were in? S:	That must’ve been second grade, that’s what I had to leave here.

	M:	And they moved you and they moved the school?



	S:	The whole school, they tore it up after they moved us over to Dunbar. And then they came back and moved this section.

	M:	They moved this section, the small addition?



	S:	The small addition that they had over there at the beginning. M:	You don’t think they moved this big section?

	S:	No. That was two stories. M:	They destroyed that?





	S:	They tore that down, destroyed it. Yeah, they tore it down because I remember some people got [inaudible 1:10:14]. They tore that section down. And they moved the small section.

	M:	So you don’t think they chopped the top half of the big section? S:	In what way?

	M:	Just chopped the top section, put a roof on it, move that section over. S:	Moved the small addition.

	M:	They moved the small addition over to Dunbar and they destroyed the two-story building?

	S:	Yes. Just like that Sanibel School.



	M:	So what you’re saying—the part that they originally moved is not the original part of Williams Academy, it was the addition that they added on later.

	S:	That wasn’t the whole Williams Academy, it was a part of it. M:	Right.

	S:	But it wasn’t the whole Williams Academy.



	M:	But the original academy was just a section right here? And if you’re saying they moved that section—

	S:	No, I’m saying they moved that little addition. That part.



	M:	But this was the original, this was the one they built in 1912? This they built later on.

	S:	Built it later on.



	M:	This little addition right here, they built this later on. S:	Where?





	M:	This back section. It wasn’t there originally in 1912.



	S:	Not in 1912 I don’t imagine it was, they added it on later on but what year they added it on, I don’t know. 1912, I wasn’t even here in 1912. I didn’t get here until about ten, eleven years later.

	M:	But you think they just moved this small section?



	S:	I think they moved that small section and they set it in the back of Dunbar. M:	And they tore this big side?

	S:	They tore that down. M:	Okay.

	S:	They tore that down and they still maintained primary and first grade in that small section over there. But they added some more to it. After they moved it over there, they remodeled it and then they sectioned it off to classrooms.

	M:	The small section?



	S:	Yeah, they made this larger. After they moved it all to Dunbar. M:	After they moved the addition, they expanded the addition.

	S:	they expanded the addition and that was in the rear of Dunbar, that was the part they moved over there, that part. But that was the remodeled section, that wasn’t the original original. That was part of the original but it wasn’t all of it, because they remodeled that.

	M:	Because we thought we had this section.



	S:	Not that I remember. I remember they moved it straight down Martin Luther King from that site.

	M:	And do you remember seeing it be moved down?





	S:	Yeah. You know how they moved it? M:	How?

	S:	A man named Mr. Thompson, Black guy, he was a house-mover and they had horses. And those horses would go around and around and around and they was on a tongue-back, which means like the tongue of an automobile.

	M:	A tongue of an automobile?



	S:	No, like a tongue that you hitch onto an automobile? M:	Oh, like a sled?

	S:	No.



	M:	Like a hitch?



	S:	Hitch, a hitch. Okay, and that hitch had ropes with guidelines that went under the building and when they jacked that building up on these big old huge jacks, they jacked it up, when they let it down, they let it down on rotors. Those rotors were, I’d say, six inches in diameter. And they’d have the horses would go round and round and draw and just creep out of there. And each time, it had planks that the building sat on itself and this thing sat on the rollers. These are the rollers. Thing sat on top of the ropes. And they had some—

	M:	How many rollers did they have?



	S:	Oh, God I imagine they had two or three dozen of ‘em.



	M:	Okay, so they had just a bunch of rollers and a plank on top of it.



	S:	Plank on top of it, on top of those rollers. You got some more rollers in the middle. There you go, that’s right.

	M:	And they’re tugging this and as soon as—





	S:	As soon as this building got off of this part, these two rollers probably, then they would take these two rollers, bring ‘em up front. And just kept bringing ‘em up front. It would take approximately—Oh, I think it took about a week or more to move that building from down there on Cranford and Anderson over here on High Street.

	M:	And you remember them doing that?



	S:	Yeah, I remember. And at night when they would get finished, they would leave it in the middle of Anderson and the cars would have to go around it. And they had three, four horses. And those horses would just go around and around, around and around. As they walked around, that pulley would pull those planks. They had hitches on those planks, and ropes, and someplace they had to have cable. They had to have a cable under it to keep guarding it. And that’s just the way they moved that building. And that’s the way they moved all buildings.

	M:	Just got some rollers and they’d just keep— S:	I don’t know how many rollers they had.

	M:	How big were the rollers?



	S:	About six inches in diameter.



	M:	Six inches in diameter rollers. Interesting. S:	And they were about four feet long.

	M:	And what happened to this part, the main part? S:	To my recollection, they tore it down.

	M:	Was it in that bad of shape? Do you remember if it was deteriorating?





	S:	No, it was fine, they just tore it down because they didn’t have any more use for it.

	M:	Nobody wanted to live in it as like a house?



	S:	They tore it down, and that lot stayed vacant for a long time until whatever year it was McCulloh’s came in there.

	M:	There’s a church there? Or a house? S:	A building.

	M:	I think there’s a church.



	S:	It’s a house, no, it isn’t. McCulloh’s building right—you know where that is? M:	Which building?

	S:	McCulloh Building, right on the corner of Cranford and Martin Luther King, on the right-hand side going west. It’s a yellowish looking—yellow brick building.

	M:	And what’s that building?



	S:	That’s where the school was.



	M:	Where the McCulloh Building is?



	S:	Going back west, after you cross Palm Avenue, at the next street would be Cranford. On the corner of Cranford and Martin Luther King there is a long building which is about, see, one plot of land, takes up about two doors, and then there’s upstairs, and then downstairs is a liquor store. And that whole area was the area where the school sat, from Martin Luther King to Lemon Street, all that area, everything in there was the school’s area, the school lot until they built this building.

	M:	I just find that really fascinating.





	S:	Now, that whole block, campus block, there’s about a third of that block between Cranford and Palm, that’s what the school area—

	M:	I thought it was on Lemon and Anderson. S:	It lies between—

	M:	Cranford, Lemon, Anderson. I thought it was facing Cranford. So how does Palm get into the picture?

	S:	It may have been just down Cranford Street. But I said it’s about a third of that entire block between Palm and Cranford.

	M:	This is what I have, I have it slightly open. S:	Okay.

	M:	More towards Lemon here and Anderson. S:	It sat more or less in the center.

	M:	And as you said you think they moved only the Addition or the Annex? S:	To my recollection, that’s the only part they moved. They tore this down.

Because see it was upstairs over this.



	M:	Do you know what this is right here? Do you recall?



	S:	I don’t know, I thought you said Jake said that was stairs.



	M:	No, it looks like a porch. It’s like built up porch, it might be a fence. S:	Well, the fence went all the way around this whole entire lot.

	M:	Right, it went on the corners of Lemon, Cranford, and Anderson. S:	That’s it. It’s around the whole area, not the building.

	M:	And you said the playground was where?





	S:	The playground was all the way around the whole entire—That’s a big area out there. That area closed—about two hundred and fifty by—this entire, I’d say it’s about two hundred fifty down Cranford, it’s about two hundred and fifty down Anderson and likewise, Lemon.

	M:	So there were two windows in the annex, one door which led directly into the main area, the first floor had no walls, was there a back entrance on the first floor or was there only one entrance to the first floor?

	S:	I think there was a back entrance, a back door under those steps. M:	Under the steps?

	S:	Yeah. And those steps went up from Lemon Street— M:	Okay, so the first-floor door—

	S:	First-floor door and the second-floor door was above one another. M:	Okay. It didn’t have a lot of windows so was it really hot in there?

	S:	I couldn’t say whether it was hot because like I say, we used to have any [inaudible 1:23:41] down there.

	M:	Do you remember a stove or anything like that? Blackboards? S:	The first floor.

	M:	There was a teacher’s desk.



	S:	And maybe that blackboard was somewhere along there. M:	Right there? You think it was right there?

	S:	Somewhere along there.



	M:	There was just one blackboard in this entire room?





	S:	There might have been a couple of blackboards, I’m not sure. There might’ve been two or three blackboards in there, I don’t think it was only two. There weren’t but three teachers, two in here and one in there.

	M:	You never went in this room? S:	No.

	M:	And you never went upstairs?



	S:	Not unless I was cryin’ and the principal come in and brought me in there, but I don’t remember coming.

	M:	So the principal hung in this small room?



	S:	Yes. That was her classroom and office there. M:	And did the principal teach class?

	S:	Yeah. Now, you had some brown like this cuss. Bases. To the seats. And then up to the seat. And they were bolted to the floor, all over that entire classroom.

	M:	Brown bases?



	S:	Brown bases. And they were bolted— M:	Let me see.

	S:	Like we drew the other day.



	M:	Like a regular square whatever? S:	Yeah.

	M:	They had a round base. And did the chairs move or not? S:	No, they were bolted to the floor.

	M:	Okay, and they had bolts bolted to the floor.





	S:	Might have had four or six bolts around that entire area. Now, some of them were—they were not all the same. Some of them were like a straight up and it had two stools on this side and two stools on that side.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	And that held up the seats.



	M:	So that’s fascinating, this part that was moved, this was just torn down. Do you have anything else to add? Speak now or forever hold your peace. Any other details? What color was the building?

S:  It was all grey, look like it had been painted. Okay, 1912 to 1925 or [19]26, that’s quite a while and I don’t think it had been painted but one time, that’s when they first built it. So the paint had weather beaten and sun and whatever, and had just deteriorated to a point where it wasn’t freshly painted.

	M:	And you said it was what color? S:	It was kind of grey-ish.

	M:	Dark grey? Light grey? S:	Dark grey.

	M:	And the inside was?



	S:	I don’t remember the inside being painted at all? M:	It was just dark wood? Light wood?

	S:	It was just new wood and it had aged on the walls. M:	Mmhm, was there a ceiling or was it open boards?

	S:	No, it was a ceiling in the big—over there. It had to have a ceiling.





	M:	I know but you could have exposed boards, the support boards to the top and you could see the ceiling of the—the floor of the next room

	S:	I think it was ceiling on the first floor.



	M:	Ceiling. And you said the planks to the floor were, what, plain wood? Is that what you said?

	S:	Walls.



	M:	On the walls. How about on the floors? S:	The floor were regular floors.

	M:	Regular.



	S:	Yeah, and that was [inaudible 1:28:32] also—see, you had a piece of material, a piece of wood—it was a piece of wood—okay, this was a… They got a tongue that was cut into that board like so. And then they had a strip that, move that in the center. Now, when you go to work, start at the bottom and move parallel. You start at the bottom but you have this flat piece on the floor. Then, the next piece you put on top, it would fit right in the groove here.

	M:	So the walls were parallel? They were going across? S:	Right, they weren’t going straight up and down.

	M:	They were going like this?



	S:	Right. And then in here was a groove cut in there, and in here was a tongue that this top board sat on.

	M:	So tongue—



	S:	And groove.



	M:	Tongue and groove. Walls. Okay.





S:  Now, and the floor was regular flooring. M:  What do you mean by regular flooring? S:  Regular flooring is—

M:  Last time you mentioned one by threes. S:  It’s one by three. One by three flooring. M:  One by three by one.

S:  One by three by whatever. M:  It depended on the size?

	S:	No, it depended on the—Okay, when the carpenters put the flooring down, they would put the flooring down and it would go all the way as long as that building is. All the way, it went all the way. Now, when they come back and put the second piece down, they would break it. It would break, break, break, break, right on back until—

	M:	So you had more support? Because you put an identical one here in case one— S:	No, they couldn’t break because they were sitting on top of floor joists.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	And see the floor joists ran vertical and the flooring ran parallel to the wall. If the wall was—this is the wall, it ran the same way.

	M:	So you had the slat down the bottom and the floor is like that? S:	You know what, here.

	M:	That’s really neat about the rollers. S:	How they moved it here?





	M:	Yeah, I always wondered how they did that. So it’s really simple it was open downstairs, two desks, small, annex, and did they call this nay particular thing? Did they call that the annex?

	S:	Nothing like that, just another room.



	M:	And there was no entrance to that except through the room? And this had the same type of roof to it or did this have a flat roof?

	S:	No, it didn’t have a flat roof. It had an A-roof.



	M:	It had the same A-roof that it has now? And why is it so tall? Have you seen the building?

	S:	I don’t know why—I thought it was the building, but I don’t know why they would—

[End of interview] Transcribed by: Abby Lovett

Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, August 11, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, August 18, 2021