AAHP 092; Hayes; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 092 Alice Hayes

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Paul Ortiz on August 7, 2010

45 minutes | 25 pages



Abstract: Alice Hayes grew up in Gainesville, Florida. She attended Lincoln High School, and attended Santa Fe Community College after graduating. She describes some of the impacts that Jim Crow segregation had on her life in terms of public facilities and the public education funding and supplies at Lincoln. She recalls some of the Civil Rights Movement activities in Gainesville, including the burning of several White-owned businesses on the Black business district on 5th Avenue. She also relates a number of the Black-owned businesses that she remembers there. Ms. Hayes describes her history of church membership, and some thoughts on religion. She also describes her work history as a medical technologist, working for thirty years at a clinical laboratory and twenty years at the University of Florida student infirmary.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School]











































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 092

Interviewee: Alice Hayes Interviewer: Paul Ortiz Date: August 7, 2010



	O:	We are here this morning at the Branton family reunion. I am interviewing Ms. Alice Hayes. Ms. Hayes, thank you so much for taking time out of your busy schedule to sit down and to do the interview. Could we begin, Ms. Hayes, by you telling me about your early family life, what that was like growing up and where you grew up now?

	H:	Okay, my early family life, I grew up here in Gainesville. I was in the northwest section of time. I had a brother, one brother, no sisters and my mom. My father had deceased. My mom, she worked, she was like a person who worked in the laundry and she worked at the hotels. We went to school, I went to school at Lincoln High School, however, at that time, it was only one school here for the Blacks, and that was called Lincoln High School. They had elementary, high school, middle school, all together. That was also here in Gainesville. Upon reaching my, I think it was ninth grade, I was then transferred to the southeast section of town, because they had built what is now known as Lincoln Middle School. At that time, it was called Lincoln High School, and it still was a high school that was only for just Blacks. I went to school there for four years from ninth through twelfth. I graduated in 1960 from there, and then upon graduating I worked a few years and then I went to Santa Fe, when Santa Fe become open here in Gainesville, Santa Fe Community College, at that time. And it was located at several different points in town, not just at one campus. You had to drive all over campus—all over this Gainesville area in order to get to your class. So that made it a little bit difficult to really, in between, you really had to make it.





	O:	If you wouldn’t mind me asking, what was Lincoln High School like in those days?

	H:	Lincoln High School was like it was an all-Black school, all the Black kids went there. And since that was the only thing I knew, because at the time, at that particular time, Blacks wasn’t allowed to go to very many things, and even if you went to these things, they would have Black toilet, White toilet, you know, Black and White on the bathrooms. They would also have Black and White, Black and Colored, I think it was, Colored and White, that’s what it was, Colored and White.

	O:	In Gainesville.



	H:	In Gainesville. On the water fountains, as well as the bathrooms. And some places, they didn’t let you go or if you went you had to go around to the back door. And in schools, at the schools, when we went to school, we usually got second, outdated of most materials. I mean, considering the books and stuff. Sometimes you could get the books and the pages was torn out of the books. And you still had to use those books.

	O:	So you knew that other students, that the White students had already used the books?

	H:	Yes, and then they passed them on to us. Shortly after I finished high school—I graduated high school in 1960—they began to talk about integrating the school systems and other areas here in town. That was a pretty amazing thing for me to see, because I had never seen that before. As a matter of fact, we didn’t talk very much in our family about you know, why, or that you was really segregated from the Whites or whatever. So therefore, when I was out I had gotten a job and was





working, when this integration came about, I can remember one activity that was going nowhere. They were integrating restaurants and stuff like that and other facilities here in town, and I can see this, they had a riot, a Black and White riot. And I lived, my parents lived just off 6th Street, 5th Avenue was the main street at that time for Blacks here. And I stayed one street over and so I heard all this commotion going on, and naturally my parents said, “No, you don’t need to go down there,” but then how it was and wanting to know, I slipped down from my house to the corner where I could see. And I was at the corner of 5th Avenue and 6th Avenue where I stayed, looking to see what’s going on. And I saw a awful lot of amazing things. I saw people driving cars into each other, I saw that 5th Avenue strip had White owners in that area that owned businesses but they were mainly just for the Blacks, very few Whites if any, came down there. And they decided that, hey, they not going to run a business in this area anymore they gonna tear it up; can’t go in, gonna tear it up. There was something there at that time called the Royal Cleaners, that was the only cleaners that I know was on that strip. Next to that there was a thing called Hendricks Furniture Company, and he sold all the furniture in town to that area, Black people there, you could get it on, like a credit, and pay so much a month or week or whatever. And it was a very nice store outside, it was one of the better things in that area. But I saw them doing this White tear all those businesses up, so much so until I could see fire, because they started a fire. And the fire began to burn things, and all of the loud different profanities and cars climbing into each other and I had stepped off from the house, and I thought it was best I better leave and get back home





before my parents found out I was gone. So that was an exciting time for me, because I had never saw that before. So much fire it was like an inferno, 5th Avenue burning from that corner from 6th Street as far as I could see. There were balls of fire and cars, people running them into each other, sometimes they bust stuff and flames start, that kind of thing.

	O:	So that was something that the business owners… H:	This was in the [19]60s.

	O:	That was in the [19]60s. H:	Early [19]60s.

	O:	Early [19]60s, and the business owners just wanted to move out?



	H:	The business owners didn’t want to move out. The Blacks wanted them to move out because they wasn’t able to go to other things in town. So this became about because of them trying to integrate other facilities in Gainesville.

	O:	Could you talk a little bit, Mrs. Hayes, about what the community life was like when you were growing up, did you go to church, were there clubs?

	H:	Community life for me growing up was maybe a little bit different from other families because in my family they was real religious. My father was a minister, my grandfather was a minister, so we came from a long line, and there was just certain things you weren’t going to do as a minister’s daughter or there was just two of us, and we were ten years apart, my brother is ten years younger than I am. Being sometime I would have to babysit with him, more than just being brother to him growin’ up, I would have to babysit ‘cause Momma then had to work. We were allowed on Saturdays, they had one theater on 5th Avenue, it was





at the opposite end of 5th Avenue. It wasn’t on the end where the furniture store was, it was on the other end, across 6th Street. So that was called the Rose Theater. At that time, I think the movie fee to get in was twenty-five cents, but my parents would only let us go to the movie in the daytime, if we got our work— chores done at home first. And believe me they gave you a long line of chores to do. You had to have them done before you could go do anything else. We liked to go to the movies because you got to see other people that you didn’t normally get to see unless you was in school or you went to church. And basically, that’s mostly what our little family did was went to church, they went to work, we went to school, and there was not very much activities as going to the clubs, not at that particular time. But after I got out of high school, which was 1960, I did go to a few of the clubs. During that time they had, most of them was off 5th Avenue that I went to. There was one called Sarah’s Place or Sarah’s something. I can remember that place really well because I slipped off with some of my friends and went there one time. Only one time, taught me a lesson. My parents said, “Don’t go in there, that’s not the place for you.” Well, that night I was going to slip off and go. And I went in there and of all nights that was the night they was going to integrate that place. Well, I had a big issue. I did not know that place only had one way in and one way out. I had never been in there before, I followed some friends there. Once we got in and went about oh, I’d say about a half a block into the place, someone shot the lights out. Begun shooting, and I’m not used to this kinds of stuff, and then I was trying to get out of there, because I wasn’t supposed to be there in the first place. Then I could hear tables turning over,





bottles breaking up, and when I got out, my clothes was all wet, smelling like beer. I had not drank anything but I was wondering, how in the world am I going to get back into my house without my parents seeing all of this? Well that didn’t work either, because they usually sat up and waited until you got home. So then I had a issue with them about that, but they said, “Oh yes, you’ve been drinking, we can smell it.” I hadn’t drank anything, but that was just one incident. I never done that again, and I never to this day go in a place if I know there’s one way in and one way out.

	O:	Mrs. Hayes, you mentioned that you come from a line of ministers. Had your family always lived in Gainesville?

	H:	My father didn’t always live in Gainesville. He came from Tallahassee, Florida.



And I had very little, I didn’t go to Tallahassee very much ‘cause I just didn’t. And I know little about him, and his family. I didn’t interact much with them before he passed on and my mom and him separated or something like that. So I’m not too sure because I didn’t have very much a relationship too much with him.

	O:	What about your mother’s family?



	H:	My mother’s family, I had a lot relationship with them through my grandfather. My grandfather was a minister, he was a Holiness minister and he was like the assistant pastor of a church still here called William Campbell. At that time, when I grew up it was called the Church of God and Christ. I stayed there for a long time after I got out of high school. I went on to college eventually and then after I got out of college I changed the denomination that I was in. I became a Methodist and so at that time I became a member of my present United Methodist Church,





and I’m still at present today a member there. Not knowing when I got in that church that a lot of these people that I see on this fam were there as members or stuff or they come out of this church, like the Chestnuts and the Sanders and other people. And then too I had some friends in school, high school and stuff, I didn’t know these people was really related to me. So I went to school like with the one I’ve seen on the fam name Lucy Williams, she was in the same class and graduated from high school together. And eventually then at the same church, going to church. And he became a minister, and then a few years later he passed away. He was also a bondsman in Gainesville.

	O:	That’s really interesting. Did your mother when you were growing up, did she talk about the family history or stories about when she was a girl, or anything?

	H:	Just a little, she, they didn’t do very much talking back there. And certain things they didn’t talk about, ‘cause that was considered grown people stuff you didn’t have no business in it. So they didn’t tell you, you didn’t ask, if you asked you may have gotten some lecture. I’m thinking of now how they holler child abuse. It would have been a lot of our parents back there then in jail for child abuse, ‘cause if you asked them a question and they told you this was not something you were supposed to go and ask, you didn’t ask no more, because you knew what you was going to get. So they didn’t tell you a whole lot of history about that. I knew some of my family members, like [inaudible 15:48], like immediate ones, like my mom’s sisters because she would go around them, her brothers, she would go around them. But she went very little around my father’s people so





I don’t know them, and then today I don’t know who all they are. I could be kin to one right now in here so I would not know that.

	O:	And did your, you said your mom worked in laundry. Did she work in an area laundry or was she hiring with different families?

	H:	No, she worked, she was several kind of work that I couldn’t remember. One of them she was working in the Dependable Cleaners. It was a laundry.

	O:	In Gainesville?



	H:	Yeah, and then she also worked at the Howard Johnson, which was the motel, which they paid for that kind of stuff. And then the last thing I remember her doing was working for a family which was called the Andrews. He was an attorney here, I think, and he also did some kind of representative up in Tallahassee.

	O:	Did your family growing up have much interaction with the University of Florida?



	H:	My grandfather worked here and also he was a minister, worked at the University of Florida. Most of my uncles worked here, too, some of my mother’s brothers.

	O:	What did they do?



	H:	One of her uncles, he worked in the ground department and then one of them worked, drove the laundry truck or whatever, at the university. They had some kind of laundry out here. He did that. Her sisters did different work, they worked in, used to be Alachua General but they’re tearing it down now. That hospital.

	O:	So you’ve lived in Gainesville most of your life.



	H:	Yes, I have gone a lot of places but I’ve always come back here.





	O:	When you were in high school, Mrs. Hayes, did you have an idea maybe your junior or senior year, because I know you went to Santa Fe subsequently, but when you were still in high school did you have any thoughts about what kind of career you might pursue, or was that too far off?

	H:	Well it was too far out I thought for me because I didn’t know where I was going to get the money from to go to school. I wanted to go to school, I wanted to further my education, but I didn’t know how. And I was going to do it because of finance. But then I got around a few friends at Santa Fe, and they showed me about how you could get grants and this kind of thing to go to school. So I’m an easy learner, if you show me the way, I will take pursuit and try to find out if I can do the same thing. So they showed me how to do that even though I was working. I worked my way, the whole time I went to Santa Fe, I worked and paid my own tuition. I graduated from Santa Fe and I was determined to further my education because not too many people in my immediate family that I knew of had ever went to college and I just wanted, I think I was the first one that I know of in my little immediate area here.

	O:	To go to college.



	H:	Yes, I went to the University of Florida. I finished Santa Fe in 1972 because I was delayed in going because I didn’t know how to get there and when someone showed me the way I took the opportunity and tried to do that. So I graduated from Santa Fe in 1972, I came to the University of Florida as a transfer student from Santa Fe. And then I graduated from the University of Florida in 1974, December, 1974.





	O:	Okay and what did your—what was your program of study and what kind of degrees did you?

	H:	Okay, at the university I got education, media education. And. . . O:	A bachelor’s degree?

	H:	I got a bachelor’s of art degree from the University of Florida. O:	And at Santa Fe?

	H:	General education. Because I didn’t know exactly what else I was going to do.



O:  So like an associate of arts degree for two years. When you were growing up, I mean, earlier you mentioned integration, but during the earlier years, say in the [19]40s or early [19]50s, what were race relations like in Gainesville?

	H:	Terrible, because you wasn’t able, if you were Black, your color depended upon what you was going to do, where you was going to go, and this sort of thing, or where you could go, or could not go. So even places like, now you have, what you have, what the place is called, thirty one ice cream places like that. We didn’t even go to places like that, they had a little ice cream sundry down on 5th Avenue because all the Blacks, that what I said, the main drag for the Blacks was 5th Avenue. And if you wanted a quart of ice cream, you went down there, you didn’t go to other places because they’d tell you we don’t serve Blacks. So you thought growing up that Black was a bad word, because you couldn’t figure out how come you couldn’t have a quart of ice cream from here because you was Black. And that made no sense to me, still we could eat ice cream, but like I said I didn’t really understand, but as the years went by and as I grew older I could understand what they meant.





O:  And so it really, it sounds like you were kept out of a lot things and Black people had their lives and their community and White folks had what they control and it was kind of very—

H:  Totally different. It was like you was in Gainesville, but it was like you was in two separate cities. Blacks here, Whites here.

	O:	Who were the, were there leaders in the Black community back then, in the [19]40s or [19]50s, were ministers considered to be leaders of community?

	H:	There was leaders back there during the time when I was growing up. One of the leaders was Charles Chestnut. I’m trying to think of that man’s name. Oh, that name had left me but anyway he was one of the leaders and if I’m not mistaken he was one of the first commissioners of something. I know he was a nurse, but I’m trying to remember his name. He even lived out in the area where I lived at the time.

	O:	Are you going out to the tour? The plantation tour?



	H:	I think so maybe, if I can find somebody to ride with me. O:	Are folks going out now to the tour?

	H:	Are you ready to go?



	O:	Okay, all right, I’ll go ahead and thank you so much, Mrs. Hayes, I really appreciate you taking the time. If you wouldn’t mind filling that out at your leisure and just give me it.

H:  You’ll be back here tonight? O:  I’ll be—we’ll be here tonight. H:   So, I’ll talk to you back then.





[Editor’s note: this interview was conducted by two people on the same day, and was later combined into one interview.]

	H:	I was working in someone’s place for a short length of time, they were out sick or having a baby or something. And I thought working in the school system was going to be great. It was nowhere like the way it was when I was in school. Now, because we’re talking about I had a break in between and finally I had to go to Santa Fe and then to the university and finally finishing, and finally trying to get something to do. I just couldn’t see myself teaching.

	I:	Really, after all of that?



	H:	After all of that. That’s what my parents and other people wanted me to do. That was never what I wanted to do in the beginning. But in order for them to help me what little bit they could help me, I had to do whatever they said in order to get whatever money they could help. So I went back to the university, took up enough classes and stuff where I could become a medical technologist, sat for the state boards exams, and stuff, and that’s what I ended up doing, and I loved it and enjoyed it and I done that for 42 years. And then I finally retired in 2006.

	I:	Oh good for you. And you did that in town the whole time?



	H:	I did about thirty some years over at Saint Apopka Charlie Clinical Laboratories.



I worked about twenty years at the University of Florida in, let me tell you the name, it was called Infirmary, but they changed the name to the Student Health Center, see I’m trying to remember the names back then what it is now.

	I:	I think the sign still says Infirmary on the building.





	H:	Okay, well that’s what, I worked there about twelve years. And then I taught school that little bit of time in between that twelve years until I got out and went back to school. And then sat for the state boards exams, got my certificate saying that I was certified and that’s what I did. And I enjoyed working with the people, drawing their blood, running tests, seeing what would make them well, putting medicine disks on different kind of cultures, and seeing if they had a throat culture, seeing what would cure, whatever medication and put that on a slip and give it to the doctor. Where maybe, say, tetracycline would cure because around each one of the little medicine disks you would have a clear area and that would tell you if it was sensitive, and if it was sensitive it would cure whatever, kill whatever was there. So I enjoyed doing that, I did that. But now I don’t want to do that anymore. But people say, “But why don’t you go do it part time?” No, part time, I’ll tell you what I like to do. I like meeting, greeting people and working with people. I love doing voting, I have done it at the University of Florida student election, and I have been a clerk out there doing that. I worked with the county doing that, I like doing that. Starting next week I’m going to do early voting down at the courthouse. And then there, it’s so easy to do that. You greet the people and you work on that great bit machine called Ebit machine. All you do is get the driver’s license, do one swipe, and everything just pop up to you. Now there will be times when you will have some difficult problem, but you know, they train us how to go in and solve the difficult problem, or sometime you may have to send them to the clerk. So I like doing that, and I been doing that part time, waiting for, retired. And since my friend, he got sick, in April, March, March of this year. And





he went into the hospital for about two months. And then they found that he had stomach cancer, it had spread and they had to operate on it. And so since he passed I don’t want to do student elections no more out at the university. But I will still do it in time.

	I:	So when you decided to change careers and your family had helped you with funding, the education for the first career, how did you tell them?

	H:	Well, I was done, I was finished with what they said they helped with, so I had no reason to tell them, hey, I need more help. I worked and went back to school, and see if you’re working at the university, you can take a few classes up to a certain amount. I would take the free ones up to a certain amount, and I would go back in at night, evening and stuff and try to pay for whatever else, another course, like that. And I went like that until I took up the classes I need and then went to Jacksonville, ‘cause now they do it in Tallahassee, for the state boards and got my license.

	I:	So they were okay with the fact that you had—?



	H:	They was okay. They didn’t care but they didn’t want me not to do no work and what they helped me to go, to get. But after I did that I did go in there and work a little bit in that, but I didn’t like that so, I don’t like being bothered with nobody else’s children.

	I:	And were there other African Americans in the different training courses that you’ve been in, were there many?

	H:	No, you know what. Even though I went to the university in 1970, I finished Santa Fe in 1972, transferred to the university as a transfer student. And I was a junior





when I transferred over there, now there was, since I was, there were some classes they didn’t recognize at the university, so I had to take some things in place of that and all of that. When I got that all taken care of, there wasn’t very many Blacks going to the university. There was probably a great number as you would think, but they wasn’t in classes with me.

	I:	They’re studying other things?



	H:	And they looked like new other people and you didn’t, I was not, I didn’t stay on campus, because I don’t think I’d have made it if I had to stay on campus. I would see other Black students, and would be so glad, I would see somebody, you know, looked like me. There goes skipping up to get me somebody else and talking, because I didn’t never meet nobody out here. But it was a good thing I lived off campus ‘cause think I was able to deal with that better and get my work done as opposed to if I was living on campus and then had nobody to say nothing to like that. That would have been a harder thing for me to do. But now he didn’t get all that, ‘cause he had so many questions to ask ‘cause I was telling him about when they had the integration and stuff come by, he has that on tape.

	I:	I’m interested in leisure, so you’re saying that since you’ve retired, volunteering for voting related things.

	H:	First retired, what I did, I decided to go on a trip. I had never been going, and I loved to go. So I went to New York, Washington, D.C., Maryland, and I lived in New Jersey. I was able to—and now the twin towers, what those people blowed up, the year before that I had went in the twin towers. That’s when I had went.

Thank God, thank God that didn’t happen while I was there. And that was real





interesting because what I usually do, I had a friend who was going to the university and she was a travelee, and she would put travel agent things for different places and she had told me about this church she had booked this trip with. And she said that they didn’t have enough people to make the trip, ‘cause there was a certain amount, and she told me the lady to call and say if you call her she might be able to let you go. So I called her and I got about six more people to go. They include my daughter, now my daughter has been here, but they had to go a funeral. She’ll be back tonight to the banquet. But anyway, I almost forgot what I was telling you.

	I:	We were talking about travel.



	H:	And we went to Washington, I kind of liked Washington better than being in New York. We went to see where they make money and stuff like that. We went to some kind of veteran wall that was there. We saw a lot of stuff. And I went to Harlem and I went to the Statue of Liberty. We did a lot of things because we stayed there a week, going with that travel agent, it was real good ‘cause it was only $289 for the round trip, and they had like a tour bus and that bus was our transportation from here to back home, and all the places we needed to go, that bus took us, so I thought it was a pretty nice trip.

	I:	And had you done much traveling when you were younger?



	H:	Yeah, but it was just smaller places here in Gainesville. Like to Disney World, Sea World, you know, things like that to the Great Masterpiece, and Spook Hill or Spook Mountain or whatever they call it. You know you get up there and the gravity take the car on over or the bus or whatever, that was real neat. The bus is





going to go and nobody is going to be driving it, but that was nice, that was a nice trip. And I went to the Passion play. Yes, that was good because they had a live production, but it didn’t start until seven at night. And so that was good, we was just like in an amphitheater, it gets really cold there at the night.

	I:	And what city was that in?



	H:	Down here, in Lake Williams. But now they don’t have that one there in Lake Williams no more, because I was trying to, ‘cause we have something we formed at the church called retirees on the go. And I was trying to think about that trip ‘cause it was such a good trip. But then the only one they had one in Florida but it’s in a different place. And I had gotten some brochures from, but they decided not to make that this year.

	I:	Yeah it’s a big entity. So what about when you were a child, what kinds of things did your family do for leisure?

	H:	My family was real religious, so that should let you know we didn’t do very many things. I’m telling the truth. We went to church on Sunday, three times a day if the church house was open. And you didn’t go home when you went there in the morning, you’d stay for the morning service, you’d stay to the evening service.

The evening service if they were going to have it you ate on the church grounds, then you can go back home. And if they had a 3 o’clock service you stayed to that. You stayed at the service in the evening. Sometimes they had young people whatever it was, we didn’t work with that stuff, you stayed to that. You stayed at the church all day long Sunday.

	I:	And eating, where did the food come from?





	H:	They would bring it in the car. And you ate out there on the ground.



	I:	So people would make it at home and then bring it in and share with everybody. H:	Each family brought their own food.

	I:	Oh, each family brought their own.



	H:	And then sometimes you would share. You know what I mean, if you had some, maybe, potato pie or something like that, you would share with some of the other people.

	I:	So basically, it was a whole bunch of different families having a picnic all in the same place at the same time.

	H:	All them people who went to church. There was like church members after church was out, you ate on the grounds if you going to have something else you didn’t go back home. You did everything right there at church.

	I:	And so that was every Sunday pretty much.



	H:	Every Sunday pretty much. Unless it was the fifth Sunday. Fifth Sunday they had something they called the fifth Sunday union, and like three different, I think it was three, every church in the district. And there would be a certain number of churches in that particular district. They would come together on the fifth Sunday and have the fifth Sunday union. You still there again, you would eat on the ground.

	I:	Okay, so in terms of, okay, fast forward a little bit to being a teenager, so in terms of meeting other people, meeting boys.

	H:	Boys!



	I:	How does that fit in?





	H:	Boys, boys, my God.



	I:	Or other teenagers, obviously you’re seeing the same group of people every Sunday.

	H:	Okay, when I went to school, I have to talk about me, when I went to school, I seen boys in school that was in my class. When we got to be teenagers and we changed classes you got to see other boys in the other class. When school was over and you went home, if you were in no extra activity like that, you didn’t see any, you went home and there was always work for you to do. There was a list of things that they had left for you to do, you either done them by the time they got home. You didn’t have all this freedom to do stuff. And if you didn’t come home, everybody in the neighborhood will tell you what time you got home. You didn’t get to do all these things like these kids do now.

	I:	So what kind of extracurricular activities were offered then at the time?



	H:	There was a few at the church that was offered. There again, you could be in the young people building worker whatever they was having going on. They would have like vacation Bible school. We would have sometime, the young people would have some kind of program on a Sunday evening where you did things up at the church.

	I:	Those were coed things?



H:  Yeah, you brought boys and girls from that church. Now the only time you seen other teenagers was both coeds, was when the fifth Sunday came and you had the mixture of all the churches in the district there you got to see other children.

I:    So things were pretty busy, there wasn’t a lot of extra leisure time.





	H:	No, you didn’t have no leisure time ‘cause when there was extra time you had to do whatever them people told you, your parents or whoever was keeping you, grandparents or whatever, you had to do whatever they told you to do. On that list they say do this and do that before by the time I get home from work.

	I:	And what would happen if you didn’t?



	H:	You don’t want to know that. Because you don’t want to know that. You know how you all talk about child abuse? Back there that’s all you would have had was child abuse. Everybody would have been locked up, everybody would have been handcuffed and gone to jail.

	I:	I got it for not eating my vegetables, that was my big thing.



	H:	That’s right. Sometimes it’s the nearest people in the neighborhood seen you doing something, they would tell on you and beat you before your momma and daddy got home or whatever, and then you got a double whammy.

	I:	When they got home.



	H:	So you just try to, just stay out of trouble, just do what you were supposed to do.



That would be best.



	I:	So kind of the communities policing the children.



	H:	Everybody raised each other’s daughter, son or whatever. They sure would tell if you didn’t get home or they seen you down the street. “Don’t go on 5th Avenue, they, oh, I seen your daughter on 5th Avenue, down there,” and it may not be nothing. You could be just walking through there.

	I:	But word spread fast. H:	Worse than wildfire.





	I:	So what about extracurricular activities at school, was there any sport or other activities there?

	H:	Well, you could get in them, but you know, I was a quiet, laidback person. The only extra thing that I was in was in the choral group. And sometimes they would go places and I was able to go there. But I wasn’t one of them people getting it no band and all that stuff. You had too much band practice. And no cheerleader ‘cause you going to really get in trouble, ooh! Talk about being a cheerleader. No I couldn’t be no majorette, none of that stuff, so I had never asked. And my brother didn’t play no football, I had one brother, he didn’t play no football, none of that kind of stuff.

	I:	Now were women allowed, girls, I guess, since we were talking about school, were they allowed to do sport things, or were there extracurricular activities for females kind of pushed away from sports?

H:  No they could do sports things, ‘cause when my daughter was going to school she liked track and tennis. But when I was going they didn’t have no track and tennis, if they did I didn’t know nothing about it.

I:   Would you have liked those kind of opportunities? H:   Probably if I was exposed to it I may have.

	I:	So in terms of sports stuff, then it was mostly the boys that did that? Or it wasn’t really organized?

	H:	It may have been organized, either one of them could do it. But I just knew that just wasn’t something I would like to do, being no majorette, being no band, and now I liked homecoming, and [inaudible 42:20] whatever that was they had that,





and that was fun, and we would go to that, you know, once a year during homecoming time at school.

	I:	Okay, so I’m from Canada and we didn’t really have homecoming. Can you tell me about what homecoming involves?

	H:	Okay, homecoming is like, it’s a yearly event, where they have just like—are you tied up at the University of Florida?

I:   I know there’s a king and a queen. But I asked somebody once what they do, and everyone’s like, I don’t really know, they just kind of show up. What was it like when you were growing up? We’ll start there and move forward, I guess.

	H:	Okay but they had homecoming at the high school. ‘Cause I can’t recall having homecoming when I was in no elementary. And I told you we didn’t have no middle school, everything was into one… and I don’t remember no kindergarten, either. I think it was first to twelfth.

	I:	What school did you go to?



	H:	The one school we had, Lincoln. I:	Lincoln was in first grade, too?

	H:	Lincoln was everything, first through twelfth. No junior high. I:	In Gainesville?

	H:	Yes, ma’am. An old building that’s still standing there, on the corner of 7th Avenue and what, and 10th I think were streets. And the principal’s house was right across the street from that. And it’s still standing there. It looks like they tried to renovate it or something.





	I:	There’s a marker in front of it. The city owns it now. The city is going to restore it and use it as a house museum.

	H:	Okay, ‘cause that was the principal and the principal was the principal for the whole thing. The eighth through twelfth, I mean, first through twelfth.

	I:	So homecoming, back to homecoming, then. That was more for the older kids?



	H:	Yeah, it was for more or less the high school part. And they would have like, they would have a king and a queen. And I think you had to raise some kind of money, some kind of funds. And I know I didn’t need to get up into that, so I didn’t never bother that. I didn’t have no money to do that kind of stuff. And I wasn’t going home saying, I want to be—and I’ll never do that, because I wasn’t going to do that. Okay

	I:	Well thank you very much, okay. And this was Alice, what was your last name? H:	Hayes.

	I:	Alice Hayes, part 2, that was. Thank you. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Richard Brust, October 8, 2015



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, September 21, 2017 Final edited by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019