AAHP 170; Palmer; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 170 Carolyn Palmer African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Brianti Downing on April 8, 2011 53 minutes | 27 pages



Abstract: Carolyn Palmer grew up in Pensacola, Florida, and was in sixth grade when integration came into effect in regard to her schooling. She describes the neighborhood she lived in and other aspects of the Black community in Pensacola at that time. She also describes the unrest and tension that came with integration, and she describes the presence of the Ku Klux Klan in Pensacola as she witnessed it growing up. Ms. Palmer ended up attending Pensacola Junior College and then Florida A&M, graduating with a Journalism major. She talks about her journalism career, including working in Gainesville, where the interview took place.





[Keywords: African American History; Escambia County, Florida; Alachua County, Florida; Journalism]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 170

Interviewee: Carolyn Palmer Interviewer: Brianti Downing Date: April 8, 2011



	D:	Today is April 7? P:	Eighth.

	D:	Okay it’s April 8. I’m Brianti and I’m here with Carolyn Palmer. Thank you for your time.

	P:	You’re welcome.



	D:	Can you spell your first and last name for me, please?



	P:	Yes, Carolyn, C-A-R-O-L-Y-N. Last name Palmer, P-A-L-M-E-R.



	D:	And this is an oral history for Blacks in Florida in conjunction with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Project. So, where’d you grow up?

	P:	In Pensacola, Florida, in the panhandle of Florida. D:	That’s interesting I’m in Panama City.

	P:	I know some people there.



	D:	What was it like there as a child?



	P:	As a child, I was a child of the [19]60s, so I lived in a close-knit neighborhood where we lived together, went to church together, went to schools together, everything was in my neighborhood. The adults left the neighborhood because they had to go work but they kept us in the neighborhood and they also kept us safe in the neighborhood because that was the [19]60s and a lot of racial discrimination was going on and they protected us. We were insulated. We knew what was going on outside of our neighborhood but, like I said, the adults protected us. That was my neighborhood. My teachers were in my neighborhood, we all went to church together, family members were in that neighborhood and





right now I consider it my village. The village raised me, because everybody knew everybody. If they didn’t know your parents, they knew somebody in the family somewhere. That’s how I grew up.

	D:	It was a Black neighborhood.



	P:	Yes it was, predominantly Black, all Black. There were men and women, and families. Some women were married and some were raising children on their own but we all lived in this close knit neighborhood and I really enjoyed it and I miss it now. It’s sad because today’s children have no concept of that close-knit neighborhood and that village that we were raised in. They talk about being raised by the village but it’s totally different nowadays.

	D:	A lot of people felt—I’ve heard that, when desegregation happened, people started mixing more, that they lost that community feeling. Do you feel like that happened?

	P:	Yes, yes. And that started happening in the [19]70s. I remember my neighborhood, where I grew up in, someone, I don’t know who in Pensacola, started building subdivisions and they were probably 10 to 15 miles away from where I lived—Pensacola is a really big place—and a lot of people left the neighborhoods and went to those subdivisions. And also during that time, late [196]0s, early [19]70s, I think I remember the late [19]60s is when I first went to an integrated school and I was in sixth grade. That was my first time. I remember the year before that, I was in the fifth grade, it was voluntary, that particular school year, but then the next school year it was mandatory, I had to go. Had to leave my all-Black school and go to an integrated school. And this school also





was sort of in my neighborhood. I mean, we could walk to the school, so it was on the outskirts a little bit. We could still walk. It wasn’t a shock for me, and I don’t know why. I guess it was just the way I was raised, to accept people who did not look like me. There was no racial undertones in my house? My parents had raised me that way, so we accepted people for people and we didn’t care what race they were. So going to sixth grade was, Okay, I just know to a new school and now we’re going to have White children, and that was fine with me.

	D:	What was the name of the school?



P:  Andy McMillan. It’s now—they converted it into apartments or condos or houses. The building is still there—it was a nice old red brick building—the building is still there in Pensacola but it’s been houses now for probably, maybe twenty years.

D:   Do they still call it Andy McMillan?



P:   No. [Laughter] It has no name but the building is still there.



	D:	What was the name of the neighborhood you grew up in? Did it have a name? P:	We were in East Pensacola on the east side of town. But it didn’t have—

D:   A name?



	P:	Right, it wasn’t a subdivision, it was a neighborhood with streets. And another thing about this neighborhood, there were corner stores, like mom and pop businesses and a lot of times we used them. Especially, I guess, during the week because my mom would go out of the neighborhood to the grocery store maybe on Saturday, maybe once a week, maybe once every two weeks but otherwise we had stores in our neighborhoods, in the corners. Some were owned by Blacks, majority were owned by Blacks but we had one store that was owned by





a White couple and they came into our neighborhood and they were accepted and they accepted us and, so.

	D:	Were the kids at school like that? ‘Cause you said you were okay with them.



Were they okay with you being there?



	P:	Yes, and I had a White teacher for the first time and she was the best teacher. D:	What did she teach?

	P:	No, my sixth grade teacher, so that means, sixth grade, she taught everything. ‘Cause we didn’t move around.

	D:	Okay.



	P:	We stayed in one class and she taught all subjects. We were taught all day. It was still elementary, it’s different now. Let me go back. When I was growing up, elementary went to sixth grade. The next year, seventh grade, I went to a junior high school and they were grades seventh, eighth and ninth. I think when I went to, at the end of the seventh grade, they cut out junior high and junior high became middle school with sixth, seventh and eighth. And then high school was nine though twelfth. They changed it, but once upon a time it was different.

	D:	I’ve heard.



	P:	But I think my mom’s and dad’s, I think everybody just went to school together, all grades, so it’s totally different.

	D:	It changes a lot, the education system. P:	Yes it does.

	D:	I know you said you could walk to school. Did a lot of the kids have to be bussed there, because I know when it first started?—





	P:	We did walk. We did walk. I don’t remember busses. But then there was around the nation during integration, the beginning of school integration, there was an issue with bussing. But in my community, we could still walk.

	D:	That’s why I asked, because I know they had to bus kids from different neighborhoods because–

	P:	Right, but we could still walk. Even when I went to the school in the sixth grade away from the Black school it was still close to my neighborhood and we walked.

	D:	That’s convenient.



	P:	Right. So I was never bussed to school during my elementary, middle and high school years so I could walk to school.

	D:	What high school did you go to?



	P:	Pensacola High school in Pensacola. D:	Is it still there?

	P:	Yes, it’s still there, it’s still a high school and it’s steady growing. D:	Really? That’s nice.

	P:	Yup. They’ve added on to it. We have more students now, it has air conditioning now. We didn’t have air.

	D:	What was it like living in Florida without air conditioning?



	P:	I had air at home. My mom always bought units for the windows. But in high school there was no air. In the summertime it would get so hot. I mean, so hot. Especially in the afternoons after lunch. But we had to bear it. Because that was the sign of the times. No air conditioning in schools. And also when I was in high school there was a lot of unrest going on. A lot of fights after lunch. It was crazy.





Because we were still fighting integration. So there was still a lot of fighting. And Pensacola, the school system, they was still trying to place everybody in the high schools because my ninth grade year, I didn’t go to school until one o’clock. It was either noon or one o’clock and I got out at five. We had double sessions over the course of the day. And I think that had to do with them still trying to figure out integration and the number of kids and separating everybody so that everything would be quote equal or whatever. But my ninth grade year I went to school at either noon or one and I got out at five o’clock.

	D:	So some kids went in the morning and some in the afternoon?



	P:	Yup, uh-huh. Some in the mornings and some in the afternoons and I went ninth grade afternoons. I don’t remember if maybe ninth and tenth went afternoons and then juniors and seniors went mornings, but I know ninth grade I went in the afternoon. And it was just that one school year.

	D:	What years was this?



	P:	I graduated high school in [19]74, so it had to be 1970, [19]71?



	D:	Ok. While all this was going on, what were the racial tensions in the town?



	P:	Terrible. It was terrible in the schools. I also remember White kids coming into our neighborhood and shooting rubber bands at us. I mean, I was sitting outside, and they would come through and shoot rubber bands at you. But the schools were terrible and they would fight and just disrupt school and we would have to go home or, you know, it was terrible. It was still fighting and fighting integration and Black kids were fighting White kids and—

	D:	Very different from elementary school?





	P:	Yes. Elementary school I went all-Black. Sixth grade I went to an integrated school and then also was starting sixth grade.

	D:	In junior high?



	P:	Yes, but we didn’t even have that problem in junior high. I don’t know what the problem was by the time we got to high school but it was totally different, everybody was just raising hell. And it wasn’t just Pensacola High. Also, it’s Escambia High School. Emmitt Smith graduated from Escambia High School. Should I tell who Emmitt Smith is?

	D:	Yeah. [Laughter] Yes.



	P:	Emmitt Smith, the big football player. He went to school here in Florida and he left early because he got drafted, he played for the Dallas Cowboys for years. He’s now retired. But he graduated—he’s younger, way younger than I am—but he graduated from Escambia High School. But during that time that I was at Pensacola High School, Escambia High School was a little worse off than Pensacola High and some of the Black kids had to leave and go to other high schools and a lot of them ran into problems when it was time to graduate. In fact, I had a friend and that happened to her. She was really upset toward the end of the school year and trying to get everything straight between these two schools because she just left. Her parents pulled her out of Escambia High School because there was so much unrest going on there. She had to come to Pensacola High and then trying to get credits together and it was kind of frustrating, by the time it was time for us to graduate. So a lot of that was going





but especially at Escambia High School. It was worse than Pensacola High. It was during the [19]70s.

	D:	Did you ever receive any of this bad treatment? P:	No, I didn’t.

	D:	You just witnessed it a lot.



	P:	No I didn’t. But I was not White so, kind of had that problem and I was not fighting. I just accepted what was happening and tried to live my life and do what I needed to do. I think a lot had to do with the mentality of your parents and what you’re taught or not taught and my mom never taught me not to—to just accept people for people. That was it. We never talked about being mean to other people.

	D:	Did you see that it was more the White students picking on the Black students or the Black students picking on the White students or did you feel like it was equal?

	P:	I think it was a little bit of both. It was a little bit of both. Because there were some bold White folks, too. Pensacola has always been called the racist city in the state of Florida. Because I also remember as a child, the Ku Klux Klan, they would march in downtown Pensacola anytime they felt like it, hood and all.

	D:	Did you live near downtown Pensacola?



	P:	Mmhm. Yeah, and we accepted that, too. But that’s what they did. Pensacola’s always been called the racist city in the state of Florida.

	D:	In the panhandle in general. Still not much better.



	P:	Right, yeah. Panama City is the same thing, so yeah. Just look at what happened to Lee and Pitts. Panama City. I don’t know if you remember.





	D:	No.



	P:	Two Black guys, they were accused of killing a White man, and they served the majority of their adult life, at least the productive part of their young adult life, in prison and they were finally pardoned by the state and released in the early [19]80s and the state compensated them financially. They were from Panama City. If they were not from Panama City, then this event happened in Panama City.

	D:	When the Ku Klux Klan would march, do you remember this as a kid in elementary school or junior high? Did it happen?—

	P:	Okay, I remember, I remember. It had to be when I was in junior high.



Elementary, the only thing I remember is King being killed and Kennedy being killed because I watched the funerals and the news. Especially the funerals with my grandfather, I do remember that. But during that time—‘cause I was born in [19]56—so during that time I was in elementary, so six, seven. But I do remember watching the funeral with my grandmother.

	D:	I remember Princess Di’s funeral with my grandmother. [Laughter]



	P:	I got up at five o’clock and watched her funeral. You’re making me remember things that just, they’re still there, I will never forget them, but I guess I’m having to remember them now.

	D:	Now you can write your memoirs. P:	I know.

	D:	What did you do after high school?





	P:	After high school I went to Pensacola Junior College, at home. After there, graduated and went to FAMU.

	D:	What did you study at Pensacola Junior College? P:	Journalism.

	D:	And you studied the same at FAMU? P:	Mmhm. Yup.

	D:	You’re a really good journalist.



	P:	The FAMU’s journalism program had just started. I think it started in [19]74 and I went there in [19]76.

	D:	I went to summer camp there for journalism when I was in high school. What was it like, the journalism department at FAM back then?

	P:	Small. Because it was just beginning. It was very small. The professors—the man who was over the journalism department was White, very nice man. But it was very small, it was just beginning and there were a few of us—mostly Blacks—there were, I think remember maybe one or two Whites in my classes, and they probably came from Florida State to take some journalism classes at FAMU. I do remember that. And I do remember working on the newspaper and all the journalism students hung out together and everything went smoothly.

There was no fighting.



	D:	Was it a good change in college from the high school turmoil?



	P:	Yes, yes, it was. It was different because I was around all Blacks again, so it was totally different. But because that’s how I grew up, I went to elementary school





with all-Blacks and, yeah elementary, that was it. So it was different, but I embraced it, and loved it, and had a good time.

	D:	What did you do on the newspaper? Were you just a writer or did you move up? P:	You know, I hate writing. I mean, I hate reporting. I like writing. Well, you know,

you have to write, because you have certain classes that you have to do. So I started out on the FAMU one doing a little bit of everything. And then one semester we had a columnist from the Philadelphia Inquirer to come as a visiting professor, so to speak, and he found that I liked layout more than reporting. And he says, “You need to be a copy editor.” And I was like, “Okay, that’s what I want to do.” Because I’m one of those behind the scenes people. I like people, but I’m just behind the scenes. I’d much rather be behind the scenes doing whatever and I’ve been doing copy editing ever since and that’s how I got into copy editing. I started here at the Gainesville Sun as a copy editor. I interned as a copy editor and they offered me a job, been here ever since. I’m still in love with Gainesville. I love Gainesville.

	D:	Really?



	P:	Yes, it’s beautiful. It’s clean, it’s small. You can get around town without having to sit in traffic forever and I love it. I go home to Pensacola now and I get upset because it’s so big and traffic at certain times of the day is terrible and you can’t move around. I just want to be able to get in my car and go where I need to be without a lot of hassles. I just want to drive. So I came here, fell in love with Gainesville, love the Gainesville Sun, this is like my second family.

	D:	So you came right after college?





	P:	Yes.



	D:	Did you intern when you were in college?



	P:	Yes, mmhm. Because the New York Times Company used to have a relationship with the FAMU journalism school and they used to get internships every summer and that’s how I got here. And I came here and worked as a copy editor, enjoyed myself, did a good job, and they called me back and I came back and I’ve been here ever since. I did leave for 18 months and went to Leesburg, because the New York Times used to own the Leesburg newspaper. They sold it some years ago. It was a smaller newspaper. I went there as a news editor, stayed 18 months and came back here and been here ever since.

	D:	Why did you come back?



	P:	I did not like Leesburg, the city. At the time, this was before the villages became The Villages. It was just starting out, it was small, but it was still a retirement community. I liked the paper, I liked what I was doing, but I just did not like that city.

	D:	How old were you?



	P:	I was probably mid to late twenties. And it was a retirement community, a bunch of retirees. It has since grown. Now, you may be able to move to Leesburg without running into the retirees because the county has grown so much and so has the city, but at the time I just didn’t like it. And then I was in a management- type program and they brought me back here.

	D:	Did you just go back to being copy editor here?





	P:	No, I went back to doing a whole bunch of different things. I worked in different departments. I did business news, I did local news, I did some work on the news desk, I did work in features. So that’s what they were doing, different departments, so I could learn a whole lot of different things.

	D:	So you were reporting?



	P:	I did some reporting. You know, I did reporting before I went to Leesburg. And I covered the school board for a couple of years. Yeah, I sure did. I forgot about that. I covered the school board before I went to Leesburg.

	D:	How many years did you work here before you went to Leesburg for eighteen months?

	P:	Probably six. ‘Cause I think I got here, I was maybe twenty-two. I got here in 1980 and I think I was maybe twenty-two and I think I went to Leesburg, I could have been twenty-nine, maybe thirty.

	D:	So you got here in the [19]80s.



	P:	Yes. I started work here January 3, 1980. So I got thirty years this year. I left for eighteen months, otherwise I’ve been right here.

	D:	Does that still count for your retirement? P:	Yes, same company.

	D:	Okay. Back then journalism was, in its way, awesome.



	P:	Totally, totally different. We were less computers, no websites. Words, words and papers and type and that was it. Now it’s totally different. Everything is on the website, web-based.





	D:	There was a journalism that was—I just hear so much about it being so much more successful in the [19]80s, people read a lot more of the papers and stuff. Do you see?—

	P:	Right, because I don’t think we were as busy as are now. Now we’re busy, busy, busy. We drive a hundred miles per hour trying to get from one corner to the next corner. It’s crazy, we’re doing so much. I think during the [19]80s, we read newspapers, we read books, we read. There wasn’t as much TV. I mean there was TV, we had color TV, we didn’t have all the channels that we have now. We didn’t have no reality TV where we peek into people’s lives, that’s what we’re doing nowadays. Everything is open. There is no privacy anymore. None.

Nobody has any private moments. Everything is exposed and all out into the open. Look at Facebook. And the children nowadays, I guess they don’t know what privacy is or they have no concept of privacy, but for them, everything is open, everything is just out there. It’s on Facebook and we’ve got photos that they’re posting of—I think a lot of things should be private. I mean, you don’t halfway dress and then put yourself on Facebook. But that’s what the young ladies are doing. And the guys are talking terrible and, I don’t know, cursing and using this shorthand language. And I think it’s terrible because if you’re a student eventually that’s not good, because you have adopted your own language and your own way of spelling words and when you take English class and you have to write a paper, you’re going to have to go between your newfound language and your English language in order to be successful. And I don’t know if all of them are savvy enough to do that, you know? It’s just strange, it really is. And I





really fear for this new generation because everything is all out in the open. And they don’t realize it. They’re going to have to do college applications one day and they’re going to have to go look for a job and you got half-naked photos of yourself on Facebook for the whole world to see. Anyhow, I’ll just pray for them. And parents nowadays, I don’t understand what’s going on with them either.

There are no parents. They are not adults. They don’t stand up to children. They’re just letting whatever happen, happen. They’re not teaching anymore. That’s what it is. They’re not teaching anymore, whereas we were taught. And not just by your parents. That village taught you what was right from wrong and what you do in this situation versus that situation. How you dress for certain occasions, how you dress for the weather. If it’s thirty degrees outside, you don’t wear shorts and a t-shirt and sandals. Okay? You need to cover your feet, your arms and your legs, because it’s cold outside. If you are going to church, you don’t wear shorts, t-shirts, and sandals, or the shortest tightest dress that you have. Nobody’s teaching manners. The kids don’t know how to say yes and no or yes ma’am, no ma’am. You don’t have to say yes ma’am, no ma’am all the time but at least yes and no, not, “yeah,” “uh—huh,” “whatchu want.”

	D:	Do you think maybe it’s also the different between the panhandle and down here?

	P:	No. No.



	D:	Or do you see it everywhere?



	P:	This is nationwide. [Laughter] No. It has nothing to do with Florida and the South versus the North. No. It’s the people. We aren’t teaching anymore and the





children are trying to raise themselves. I was talking to someone recently, and they were saying, “You know what? Grandmothers now, a grandmother could be thirty years old. Whereas when we were growing up, a grandmother was sixty or older, you know?” But you’re looking at the child is fifteen having a child. The child’s mother is a grandmother, she’s maybe thirty. The great-grandmother maybe forty-five. So you got babies raising babies. Everybody’s young. Nobody has wisdom and they are doing whatever their mind tells them to do. So whatever comes to the mind, that’s what they do. Nobody thinks. Nobody takes time to teach the children or to raise the children or to make sure they get to school or to get to school clean or get baths at night. It’s just crazy.

	D:	Do you think it has to do with feeling like we’re so busy all the time?



	P:	No, it’s not busy. No. We’ve lost something. What, I don’t know. We’ve lost our way. You know, that’s what we’ve done. We’ve lost our way. We need to find it, I don’t know how, but we’ve lost our way, we’ve lost our village. Because we move around the country now, we don’t stay. I know I didn’t stay home either, I left. I didn’t wanna stay in Pensacola. My mom didn’t understand that, but I ended up Gainesville anyway and I’m still here. But we left our villages and I don’t know.

	D:	That’s the difference between now and when you grew up. You had the village. P:	Right, yeah. We don’t have villages anymore. We just have people everywhere,

wherever they wanna be, doing whatever they wanna do, however they wanna do it. You know, nobody thinks, nobody has wisdom. The world will still evolve and we’re still here.





	D:	Yup. So when did the Guardian start because I know you weren’t the first out of here?

	P:	The Guardian started August 25, 2005.



	D:	This is a long time after you have been here.



	P:	Yes. It came about—trying to think—I think it may have come from Ron Cunningham, initially. Ron Cunningham is the editorial editor of the Gainesville Sun. He got together with some other Black employees here and they researched it and travelled the state and looked at other Black newspapers and I guess they proposed it to the powers that be, as far as the New York Times Company is involved, and we came up with the Guardian.

	D:	So were you a part of the—?



	P:	No, I was not. I did not come in until some months after it started.



	D:	You’d been copy editing up until then, just working on the copy desk, or did you have promotions?

	P:	No, I was on the day desk, right before that happened, doing page layout, copy editing, that kind of thing. That’s where I was. And then the editor they hired that did not work out and Doris Chandler, who at the time was a business editor, she ended up as the Guardian editor. She retired a year later and I think they brought me in in between that year, like the middle of that year.

	D:	So around 2006?



	P:	Yeah. Mmhm. Sometime in 2006. No—wait a minute. I came to the Guardian in December 2005 and Doris left the following December and I was brought in as





the associate editor and when she left I became editor and I’ve been here ever since, as editor of the Guardian.

	D:	How do you describe the Guardian’s audience?



	P:	The Guardian’s target audience is East Gainesville, which is predominantly Black. That’s it. And when you said East Gainesville, a lot of people say, you know Main Street divides east from west, according to the city. But when you look at “East Gainesville” I think of anything east of Waldo Road. And that’s our audience.

	D:	It’s a big audience.



	P:	Right. And a diverse group of people. You got home owners. You have people living in affordable housing, “projects,” you have renters, you have people who have been in their homes all of their lives in that area then you have new people coming in because they’ve been building Habitat homes in that area and also the city has been building houses in that area, also. So it’s a whole mix. Lot of children, of all ages.

	D:	What’s your circulation?



	P:	We print 15,000 copies every Thursday. And we distribute to churches, to certain businesses, and also some neighborhoods. They’re in racks, boxes, stores, convenience stores, and churches.

	D:	Do they have to pay or—?



	P:	No, it’s free. We survive on advertising. D:	How does that work out?





	P:	So far, so good. We’re still here. But you know what, because of what happened with the economy two years ago we lost a lot of businesses. We lost a couple of credit unions: Florida Credit Union, First Credit Union, Sun State Credit Union used to advertise with us sometimes. We lost Cox Cable, we lost Choices. We even lost Ward’s for awhile, but they came back, which is good. Publix has been there from the beginning. Charles Chestnut Funeral Home has been there from the beginning. Those are only two advertisers that have been with us through the whole six years. Ward’s, yeah, Publix, well three, and Chestnut Funeral Home.

But that’s how we survive, advertising. We did take the paper down two pages each section last fall, so instead of being ten pages each section, we are now eight pages. But it’s still good. I have not omitted anything. I try to keep all of the sections the same. The only thing that I do not get in now are entertainment stories from the wire. That’s it. We did pretty good. We still have business and automotives and charities and book reviews and health extra and opportunity community and it worked out fine, so. And now I even have space, for, if I need to, run a wire entertainment story. Like a couple weeks ago, I ran a story on Steve Harvey and Kurt Franklin. They started a Gospel Comedy Tour together, and their second stop was in Tampa on March 26, so I managed to get a story in the Thursday before that, let people know.

	D:	You were talking about before how you lost some advertisers at some point. I know the Gainesville Sun has definitely. Do you feel like– I know in the [19]80s and [19]90s I’ve read some editorials from people, and they were like, “We should have seen it coming.” Did you see it coming or did it just?





	P:	You know what, we live in the moment. [Laughter] and I guess that’s the best place to live. And when you’re dealing with the economy, you never know. You don’t know what’s going to happen, you know, six months down the road or a year down the road. If businesses are doing good today, then you expect for them to do good forever. If the economy is doing good and everybody has a job and everybody is going to the mall and they’re spending money, and going to Walmart and spending money, you never think what’s gonna happen down the road if everything is going good at the moment. And I’m not an economist so I don’t have the education nor the savviness to look down the road.

	D:	You have a daughter. Was she born here?



	P:	Yes. I have a daughter and a son. They were both born here, at AGH, which is no more. They were both born at AGH.

	D:	Were you married?



	P:	No, I’ve never been married. D:	Really? How old are your kids?

	P:	My daughter is twenty-six and my son is twenty. D:	Young.

	P:	Yes, they are.



	D:	Is your son in school?



	P:	No, he’s working right now. He said he’s going back this summer, but he does Santa Fe.

	D:	What is he studying, or does he know?





	P:	He doesn’t know right now, so he’s just taking the basic, English and Math and History and—

	D:	I know people.



	P:	This semester, he’s working.



	D:	And your daughter, what does she do?



	P:	My daughter’s in grad school at UF doing guidance counseling and mental health counseling and trying to graduate December 17. That’s her goal. She’s married. And she has a daughter.

	D:	I’ve seen her in here before.



	P:	Okay. She will be four in July. And they were, both of my children, born and raised in Gainesville.

	D:	Which side of town did you live on?



	P:	We’ve always lived east of 13th Street. Right now I am in Northeast Gainesville but I’m not east of Waldo Road, but I’m in East Gainesville. And my neighborhood, I am near Metcalf Elementary, I am right at 16th Avenue and Waldo Road. Once upon a time, that was an all-White neighborhood, but then— because even when I moved into the neighborhood in the early [19]90s, my son was a year old—he’ll be twenty-one this year—so twenty years ago, there were still some of the old Whites from a long time ago who bought the houses a long time ago, they were still in the neighborhood. And there were more then, than there are now. Even on my street, they started dying off. My street is a mixed neighborhood right now. That whole area is. There are a lot of Blacks in there, too. And I like it, it’s full of trees, though.





	D:	Yeah, it’s a lot of trees in Gainesville, in Florida really, there’s so many trees. P:	I like the trees, but when you have a yard full of leaves, I don’t like them then. D:	Is that the downside to Gainesville?

	P:	Yeah. I really like the trees ‘cause I love shade, but like I say, I like Gainesville. D:	Did you try to raise the kids with the village mentality?

	P:	Yes I did. Especially when I moved to the neighborhood. And I’ve always had the best neighbors, especially on both sides of me. So it always worked out. I know my daughter, when she was in elementary school, like on Saturday, I would run errands sometimes and she would tell me, when she got to be nine, ten, “I don’t want to go with you, I want to stay home.” But then I was able to leave her with— she had phone numbers of our neighbors and I would look out and say, “Ms. So- and-so is here if you need her, Ms. So-and-so is home in front if you need her, Ms. So-and-so is home over here if you need her, here are the numbers, I’ll be right back.” Just because that’s the way I was raised, that’s all I knew. So yes I did. And I felt good about leaving her home and I told her, “Look, don’t open the door and like I said, Ms. Eva is home over here and Ms. Barbara is home over here and if you need anybody you just call.” Yes, I sure did.

	D:	That’s good. Did that help, being a single mom?



P:  Yes, it did. Because they were always on the lookout for what was going on with them and I moved to a neighborhood that had sidewalks because I wanted them to be able to ride their bicycles and skate the neighborhood like I did. I was able to ride my bicycle and skate, that’s what we did growing up together as a group. Sometimes we would even sneak out of the neighborhood on our bicycle and





skates, but yes, that’s why I chose my house and my street and everything. So they could bicycles and skate. We have a yard. My mom, every summer, she would always go and buy things for us to play with in the yard: balls and marbles and jacks and we always had a swing set in our yard. The kids would come to our yard and play.

	D:	Sounds nice. Well, I don’t have any more. P:	Sounds good to me.

	D:	Good luck with the Guardian. It’s really good. I like reading it.



	P:	Good. Our readers love it, too. And I get a lot of feedback, which is good. Especially from Aida. Aida is one of the reporters and then we also have Cleveland. But Aida always, because people always talk to her, and tell her, “Well I ran my brief in the Guardian and I got all these calls,” and so which is good. So somebody’s looking at me, that’s what we want.

	D:	I feel like a lot of publications get lost if they don’t know their audience very well.



But you’ve been able to hone in on that and you know what they expect.



	P:	Right. And you have to know your audience because that’s how you will choose what stories will go in the paper. But you have to know your audience because my goal, each week, is to educate, inform, and empower our readers. And I have to be sure that I choose stories that will attract them and not stories that they have no use for. So that’s my job. And it’s not easy, but I try to do what I can, each week, and keep East Gainesville in mind. And that’s with every publication. You have to be able to target your audience. You don’t want to lose your audience. So I have to be very, very careful, every week. Even when I choose





photos, choose stories and photos, I have to be careful, you know, and keep East Gainesville in mind. Keep our readers. And in addition, maybe we’ll get some more advertisers, too.

D:   Do you think you’ll ever charge?



	P:	I doubt it. Because there are other publications that the Gainesville Sun does, and we only charge for the Gainesville Sun. You know, we have Gainesville Magazine, there’s no charge. The Guardian, there’s no charge. We used to have for West Gainesville, the Gainesville Voice, and there was no charge, so.

Probably not. I guess everything will come through advertising. We just need advertisers.

	D:	What are your kids’ names?



	P:	Maya, my daughter and Eric, my son. I named Maya, Maya named Eric. D:	One of my sisters named another one of my sisters, so it’s a good method. P:	[Laughter] And she’s Maya, just like Maya Angelou.

	D:	Is that who she’s named after? P:	Yes, and that’s how it’s spelled. D:	M-A-Y-A.

	P:	M-A-Y-A. You know, cause nowadays there’s Maya’s out there but they may be M-A-I-Y-A, or they may be Amaya.

	D:	It starts to get complicated. P:	Yeah.

	D:	Thank you for your time, Ms. Palmer. P:	You’re welcome.





	D:	I really appreciate it. P:	Thank you, thank you. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jessica Lancia, July 20, 2011



	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, November 16, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019