AAHP 064; Pollard; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 064 Clarence Pollard African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Sean Jordan on June 18, 2009 20 minutes | 12 pages



Abstract: Clarence Pollard was born in Gainesville, Florida, and his parents came from Rosewood. He attended Lincoln High School in Gainesville, and entered the US Army before graduating, serving in the Mediterranean theatre during World War II. He relates the significance he finds in personal conduct and comportment, and the importance of religion in his life.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; World War II]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 064

Interviewee: Clarence Pollard Interviewer: Sean Jordan Date: June 18, 2009



	J:	My name is Sean Jordan. I am here with Clarence Pollard today on June 18th, 2009. I’d like to thank you for being here today with me, Mr. Pollard. How are you doing this afternoon?

	P:	I’m doing good. Real good.



	J:	That’s excellent. Would you mind giving a little background on yourself? What profession you had, how long you’ve been living in Gainesville for?

	P:	I’ve been in Gainesville—I was born here in Gainesville. My birth month is three, nine, [19]24. I was born in Gainesville on North Main Street. Which, it wasn’t a street at that time, it was a sawmill quarter.

J:  That’s very interesting. Let’s go back to your childhood for a little bit. You have been living here for your entire life; would you mind telling me something about your parents?

	P:	My parent’s name was George Bradley, my grandparents was George Bradley, my mother’s name was Queen Bradley, and my grandmother was Maggie Bradley.

	J:	And they were all residents of Gainesville, too, their entire lives? P:	No, they was in Rosewood, born in Rosewood, Florida.

	J:	Did you have any other brothers and sisters in your family? P:	No, I’m the onliest one.

	J:	Only child. And would you mind telling me any—do you have any recollections of your early childhood, or your school life in Gainesville?

	P:	Yes, I went to school in Lincoln, Lincoln High School. I forget the year, but it was









probably in about [19]40. The [19]40’s.



	J:	And that was—Lincoln was an elementary school, or—? P:	Yeah, Lincoln High School.

	J:	High school.



	J:	And what street was that located on? In Gainesville? P:	Yeah, on 7th Street.

	J:	7th Street. North, near—above, north of University Avenue? It wasn’t University then, was it?

	P:	Yeah, north. It was on the northwest side.



	J:	Oh, okay. And how many months out of the year did you attend school? Was it typical nine months like it is today?

	P:	Yes. Nine months. I went to elementary school. I was in elementary class, and then I moved over from Lincoln High School. Went to Williams Elementary School. The school that I was going to burned down, and I started back to Williams Elementary School. We had school in the church while it was burned down. Until they built Williams Elementary School, and then we moved back to Williams Elementary School.

	J:	And when the new school was built, what were the conditions like there? Was it multiple classrooms, or was it separate buildings?

P:  Yeah, the classroom was like it is now. Kind of like it is. It was a little smaller than what they build a school now. When we went to church, when we moved into the church, it was all one big building. Everybody was in the church.

J:   And how did they go about conducting class when it was in the church? The









large church room? Was it separate classes or grades?



P:  Yeah. Mostly had, you sat here, and had the seats divided where different classes were.

J:  Oh, okay. That’s very interesting. And with regards to school, do you have any specific memories of teachers that had specific impact on your life? Or favorite courses? Areas of interest?

P:   Yes, I had Professor Cooks. Professor Cooks, and Ms. Martin, and Ms. Rivers. J:   And how do you spell that first professor’s name?

P:   C-O-O-K-S, Cooks.



J:   Oh, okay. Cooks.



P:   I imagine you might know him, don’t you?



	J:	Oh, I’m not too sure. Still around? [Laughter] P:	No, he’s gone on.

	J:	What of topics? Did you study history? Or was it just a broad— P:	Man, we done studied everything! I don’t know if it was a special.

	J:	What did you end up doing after high school? What did you end up doing after you graduated high school?

	P:	Well, I didn’t graduated from high school there. I graduated from high school after I went to service.

	J:	Oh, you were in the military? P:	Yeah, I went into the military.

	J:	Oh, what branch did you go into? P:	I went to Army.









	J:	Oh, excellent. And you were infantry division? P:	What?

	J:	Infantry?



	P:	Yeah. Yeah, infantry.



	J:	What year did you join the military services? P:	I went in there in [19]43.

	J:	[19]43. And if you don’t mind, could you tell me something about your service in the military? Was it abroad, or stationed here?

	P:	No. I went to Camp Blanding. Our introduction camp was at Camp Blanding. And I went to Fort McClellan, Alabama. Breckinridge, Kentucky. And left to serve overseas.

	J:	What would you say your biggest memory of the military is, as far as conditions?



What type of unit were you in? Was it a integrated unit, or a segregated unit?



	P:	Yeah, I was in a segregated unit.



	J:	What would you say, was there any differences between—what was the interaction like between the different units in the Army?

	P:	Well, the difference was in it was the things that we used; I mean, we couldn’t get as much of it as the other part of the Service. You know, we had different things to use.

	J:	So, it was, the quality of equipment was different? P:	Yeah, equipment.

	J:	And did you see any theatres in Europe or the Pacific while you were in the military? Did you go abroad in World War II?









	P:	I was in the Mediterranean Theatre. J:	What was that?

	P:	With Hitler.



	J:	Oh, okay. That’s very interesting. What would you say the biggest lessons you learned, or the most you took out of your military experience? Were there any certain stories or specific memories you have?

	P:	How to survive.



	J:	How to survive.



	P:	Yeah, how to survive. Anything they threw at you, you can survive anything.



That’s one thing that I learned. How to get along with people.



	J:	Teamwork. What year would you say you ended your military service, or did you continue?

	P:	Well I was inducted in [19]43, and I come back, and they wouldn’t accept me because it was during the Christmas time. And then, when I went back, it was [19]43, [19]44, and I went to Service, and I went to Camp Blanding, and I left to Camp Shelby, Mississippi.

	J:	And what was that first camp you said? P:	Camp Shelby.

	J:	In Mississippi. And how did you end up meeting your wife?



	P:	How did I end up meeting my wife? Well, my first wife, I was in Service. And when I came back, we moved in a house, and she moved in by me, and that’s where I met her.

	J:	Have you had any kids?









	P:	No.



	J:	No kids. Mildred Hill-Lubin, a member of your Church, the Greater Bethel AME Church, has referred us to you. What impact would you say the church has had on you?

	P:	My Church is Mt. Olive.



	J:	Oh, it’s not that? It’s not AME? P:	Mt. Olive AME.

		J:	Oh, okay. What impact has the church community had on your life, as well as— P:		The church, it taught me a whole lot of things. I mean, it taught me—first thing, it taught me how to direct myself as a person. It taught me to live right, the

Christianity way. And then, it taught me how to pray. How to do. How to be kind to each person. And then it learn, it taught me a lesson by reading it. It helped me to read more. And it just taught me how to be a more of a gentleman.

	J:	That’s very excellent. Within your greater community, do you have any specific memories of church, like doing things with the church in your community?

Festivals, celebrations, working with kids, any community service through the church?

	P:	Oh yeah, yeah. I’m on the student board. I have to make it known that I have to— sometimes I go to the church, and I have to teach the summer school. I be teaching in summer school, I be director of when they go for the programs and things. Chaperone, stuff like that.

	J:	What kind of values and ideas do you try and pass down to kids that you’d say you teach in Sunday school, or summer school?









	P:	To have a better attitude toward things and it get along better with a better attitude. Attitude is a good—carry you a long ways. And how to direct yourself. How to—and in a way to get jobs. You can get jobs if you have a better attitude. And dress right. You need to dress right, to get a attitude, and a haircut.

	J:	[Laughter] Yeah, exactly! Would you say that you notice a difference between, say, your generation when you were growing up, and today’s generation of children?

	P:	Oh, it’s a lot of difference. The things what we had to do, we didn’t have no swimming pool. They have swimming pools now? We didn’t have no swimming pool. We made our swimming pool. We went and dug swimming pools. And the thing that children eat now, we didn’t have. We didn’t have the things they eat. When we, when I had—when my mother cooked, she didn’t asked us what we want to eat. They just picked the food, and what they fixed we ate it. We didn’t tell them we didn’t want that! [Laughter]

	J:	[Laughter] You didn’t have as much an option back then, sure!



	P:	Yeah, we didn’t tell them we didn’t want it. And they have more stuff now, which when I got a little something, I was satisfied with it, you know? And I knew how to take care of it. But now, I mean, sure enough, they don’t care about taking care of it. They have so much. In fact, the thing I wanted to use, I mean, they wouldn’t even touch it now.

	J:	[Laughter] Yeah, exactly! If you were, say, to give a young boy or girl of today an inspirational word of wisdom or story from your life, what would you tell them to do, or make sure to pursue in their lives?









	P:	I’d tell them the same thing: have a better attitude towards it, and you know it’s so many ways that they got now, that you go to church and there are so many different things that they teach them now. There so many church names, and so many things they do now. There so many names of churches and things. ‘Til you can’t hardly explain what to tell them, you know what I mean? Because they going take they own way. But I would tell them to trust in God, be sure to trust in God; don’t never forget, wherever you go, to make sure that you put your trust in God, and do the Word.

	J:	And is there anything you would tell them not to do in their pursuit of higher education, or maybe military service?

	P:	I would tell them to stay off of—be sure to stay off of drugs, and keep yourself clear of things that is unlawful. To be sure to keep from being unlawful. And strictly stay off [inaudible 12:52].

	J:	Yeah, absolutely. Is there anything else? Topics you’d like to cover, say from your young childhood, or specific stories of lessons that you learned as a child that you’d like to pass down?

P:   Yeah, I would learn that when you going looking for a job, be sure you know how to do the job. And when you going to school, learn more than one thing, because you don’t know what you going have to do for a living.

	J:	And how would you say growing up in your—like, when you grew up, impacted how you turned out? Like, you grew up through a very, very tense time in American history, through the Civil Rights Movement, through World War II, through Kennedy. How would you say any specific events from this era, like









historical events—do you, say, do you remember when say America landed on the moon, or Kennedy’s assassination, or what do you remember about Martin Luther King?

	P:	Do I remember Martin Luther King? I remember, I remember the march, and I remember what he stood for. I remember how he was treated. And I remember what he stood for. Yeah.

	J:	And would you say he had a, growing up, had a large impact on the way your activism in the Church today?

P:   Oh, yeah. Yeah. Because that was, the church was the onliest place that we had to go to meet, and we didn’t know nothing else to go but church. We ain’t had no other place to go. That was the place for us to go to have meetings; anything.

Anything we did, that was the onliest place we had to go. But now, they have different places to go. They can go plenty of places now.

	J:	So, you see a certain difference in the opportunity available. And with the election of President Barack Obama recently, do you see that progress— certainl,y progress has been made through the Civil Rights Movement. Did you ever think that you would ever see the day that there was an African American president?

	P:	Never. I didn’t never think it. And then, I did see. I did see. I thought it would be, because I seen what was happening—it was a lots of different when I was coming up than it was now. They have way more opportunities, and they have more things to look forward to, like Obama. And people will put after Obama.

When I was coming up, you didn’t have nothing to look to but a preacher and a









schoolteacher. But now, it’s a whole lot of things, peoples you can look up to: congressmen, secretaries or presidents of different things; but when I was coming up, you didn’t see that. I see another thing: a bootlegger. [Laughter] That was the peoples that you had to look at! But now, it’s everything has opened up, and the schools and things are different. Now they get a chance to go to different schools, but when I was coming up, your books were—a White person’ books was even different from ours. We could never stock our books with White folks’ books. We got the hand-down, but now they getting the real thing.

	J:	So it’s much more equality, and they are able to see. Yeah, that’s excellent. So, would you say that recently, with the election of President Barack Obama, there are more positive influences and opportunity that’s having an impact on the— overall—on the African American community, and making efforts—?

	P:	Yes, I do. Because when you see one person made it, that show you that you can make it too. And seeing a Black man in the White House, and other people voting for him, then you know it’s a chance for you. But if you don’t ever see it, you know wasn’t a chance, ain’t no chance for you until you see it. Because he had to make his chance. And you know what you got to do to get where he is. You got to school, you got to study, and you go to work hard, and you know it! So ain’t but one thing you need to do, and that’s buckle up; you ain’t got no excuse, now. You know that.

	J:	Are there more words you’d like to say children of the African American community or any child today? What would you say—what advice would give them?









	P:	I would give them advice to be sure to go to school, get your education. And if you get your education, you got a chance. But without the education, you ain’t got too much of a chance. Education mean a whole lot to not only Black people, but all, all people. And knowing now that ain’t nobody got to give you nothing.

You work for what you get. You can’t sit down and ask for nothing, and people just keep giving you something. You got to get up and get it for yourself.

	J:	Absolutely. That’s excellent, excellent words right there. Well, those are all the questions I really have. I appreciate you sitting down with me today, Mr. Pollard. If there is anything else you’d like to say, the recorder’s yours.

P:   Yeah, well, and I want to thank you for coming by now. And I am glad to say what I said. I wish, I wish our young people would be sure to take care and do the right thing, and come on and get their education, where they can make it, too.

Because I mean, if peoples in America—not only Black people—is losing out because they are sitting down and letting other peoples getting ahead of them, and that’s the reason we’s getting behind. And most of the thing, we’re not doing what we’re supposed to do. We’re having a good time, and good time won’t make it for you; leave it.

	J:	Absolutely. Well, thank you very much for sitting down with me today, Mr.



Pollard. I really appreciate it. Thank you very much, and your interview was truly inspiring. Thank you very much.

	P:	Yeah, you welcome. [End of recording]









	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 27, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019