AAHP 202B; Leath; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 202B Mamie Lee Leath African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Ryan Morini on November 8, 2011 2 hours, 10 minutes | 39 pages



Abstract: Mamie Lee Leath (b. 1927) describes working at the Atkins crate mill in Gainesville, Florida, and being a farmworker on fields that were owned by the University of Florida. She talks about overall conditions of farmwork, and the workers’ efforts to raise their wages. She explains that she left Gainesville before integration and returned after, and she describes the shock she experienced in terms of not simply the changes but the things that she feels the Black community lost in the process. Mrs. Leath also describes some of the Black businesses and business owners of Gainesville during the Jim Crow era, and shares stories and memories about them. She reflects on the impacts of World War II on the Black community in Gainesville. Segregation shaped the economic options available to African Americans in Gainesville, and Mrs. Leath especially discusses the impact on women. She also discusses some of the illicit or under-the-table economics surrounding bolita and bootlegging.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Segregation]



Standards

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.7.8, SS.7.C.3.12 Brown v. Board of Education































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 202B

Interviewee: Mamie Lee Leath Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: November 8, 2011



	M:	This is Ryan Morini. I’m sitting with Mamie Leath. L:	Mamie Leath, uh-huh.

	M:	At her home on [address], in the Porter’s neighborhood in Gainesville, on—what is today? The 8th?

	L:	The 8th.



	M:	Already. November 8th, 2011. Okay, so we were talking about the University of Florida, when you were growing up, and when you were a young woman here.

	L:	I graduated from high school, from Lincoln High School, in 1946. And when I graduated, I was working at Atkins Manufacturing Company, the crate company that made baskets for beans and corn shipping. And the name of the company I worked for: Atkins Manufacturing of Gainesville. I stayed here until [19]53. My mother passed in [19]48, and I stayed and looked after my younger brother and two younger sisters. My father passed and he was living in New York. I went to New York in [19]53. After that, my father passed away in [19]58—my mother passed away in [19]48. I didn’t come back; I stayed up there. And at that time, when I left home, University of Florida wasn’t accepting girls. It was just boys’ school. The girls was going to Florida State, which was in Tallahassee. And I can’t remember what year it started accepting the girls, but I remember—day really remember that I really had arrived. Was having a little trouble, but I don’t know what year it was, because I was up in New York. But I knew they started accepting girls, and that’s when they started building more buildings out there.

Because when I left, it wasn’t like it is now. Because, P.K. Yonge was the private





school. It was affiliated with University of Florida, and the students that graduated from P.K. Yonge was eligible to go to Florida. That’s where the middle class and the rich private school that went there. And the building is still there. It part of University of Florida now, but the old P.K. Yonge School is right there on SW 5th Avenue and 13th Street. Right across from the Student Credit Union. That was the old original P.K. Yonge High School, private school. But it’s the old—it’s part of Florida now. And Florida have built the parking lot right there next to it, the school. Now, all those buildings that you see around there wasn’t there; that was all woods. University of Florida fraternity boys, sorority, the row was right there on University of Florida and 13th Street. Now, those buildings is there, all except one: and that’s the one that had the white line? Boys fraternity. It’s a filling station on that corner, that’s where that house was, there. It’s on the Fraternity Row on the campus now. And they got that white line; that was the rich—that’s where the rich boys went. They all the richest, they on that Fraternity Row on the campus now, but they wasn’t there when I was. They was off the campus. They didn’t have all that; that was woods. All that built, is where Alice Lake—Lake Alice was there. And it’s still there. All that was woods back in there, all of that. University of Florida, when I came here, I didn’t know it, because it grown and expanded so.

Where Shands Hospital at, that was all woods. That was a part of Florida property, but it was woods. Cows, cattle was all out there. All where the Veteran Hospital and in there, all that was woods. All back, like third and fourth, all woods; farm land. Many days, I went out there picking beans, working in the corn, beans; hoeing corn, hoeing tobacco; picking tobacco, cropping tobacco;





hanging tobacco. Worked on the farms. It just growed. Onliest thing out there was Gainesville Country Gulf Club; that golf course is still there on the campus. The Country Golf Club, that’s still there. That was the onliest golf course that was in Gainesville when I left here. All that out there was farmland: all going to Newberry Road, all there was farm. Farm. You had to have a car to go, or bicycle; we rode bicycles on Saturdays or on Sundays to ride out that way. Or walk, because it was all woods.

	M:	Did you ever go to Lake Alice? Was that a place you could go to, or—?



	L:	You could walk around it, mmhm. But we didn’t hang around because, see, it had alligators. Still have alligators; some big alligators in Lake Alice.

	M:	Oh, yeah.



	L:	Mmhm. No, we didn’t go play around in there. Mm-mm. But we walked out, and wasn’t allowed to.

	M:	Did you fish in it or anything?



	L:	No, we wasn’t allowed to fish. We could bike, we would ride around it, but we didn’t—that was farm land. That was private, that university property. The university students studying agriculture there.

	M:	And so, when you were picking the tobacco, the beans—



	L:	We working for the farmers. People take us on their own farms out on Newberry and Archer, going. We worked for them. They come and pick you up, and bring you back in the evening.

	M:	Where did they pick you up, in the neighborhood, or you—? L:	Yeah, mmhm.





	M:	How much did you make?



	L:	[Laughter] They paid us by the hour. Well, some paid you seventy-five cents a day; some paid you by the hour. Some paid you for fifty cents a hour. But back in there, you could do so much with a dollar. A dollar, you could take a dollar and buy fifty dollars’ worth of food; you can’t do that now, you can’t buy a candy bar for a dollar now.

	M:	That’s true.



	L:	What I used to could buy for a penny, you can’t buy for a dollar. You could take five pennies and go to the store, and buy: “One penny worth of rice. I want a penny worth of sugar.” You get a bag like that for a penny.

	M:	That’s a good amount.



L:  You can’t do that no more. Penny ain’t worth nothing now. A nickel ain’t worth nothing. A dime ain’t worth—you can’t buy nothing for a quarter, you can’t buy nothing for fifty cent. And you can’t buy nothing with a dollar. They open these dollar stores, you go in that dollar store, you ain’t going find nothing there for a dollar. [Laughter]

M:   That’s true.



	L:	I’m glad I came up the time I was raised up, the time I did. Because my mother and father, what they made, they did wonders. You can’t do that now. You can’t do that. These kids being raised up, they don’t know. They don’t even know how to survive like we did. We was taught how to survive. These kids today, they only wear a certain brand of sneakers. We wore what they was able to buy us, and was glad to wear what they bought us. And we treasured it, we took care of it.





These children don’t, they don’t know the value. But mine do. Because I raised them up the way I came up, was raised. They know the value. They can go and shop for themselves. I can give them a certain amount of money, I tell them, I say, “Now, that’s up to you: you can spend it all on one thing, or you can look for bargains.” They know how to shop—and the brand.

	M:	That’s a good skill to have.



	L:	I got five sons. My oldest son’ll be forty-five years old. My oldest son will be—no, Gene will be sixty-four years old this coming December. That’s my oldest son.

My next oldest son will be, Donald is fifty-three. My next oldest son—Don is sixty- three, my third oldest is fifty-three, Donald is fifty-three—Donald is sixty-three, Michael is fifty-three. Anthony is fifty-two, and my baby is forty-two.

	M:	That’s quite a family.



	L:	And I got six grandson, I got six great grandson, and two great-great granddaughters.

	M:	Wow.



	L:	That’s the girls. Now, we get back to Florida. I left here in [19]53, and I went to New York. I stayed there, and I came back home in [19]79. And I didn’t know where I was. Because when I left here, the train station was on North 6th S[treet] and 5th Avenue, where Sante Fe College at over there. That’s where the train station was when I left. When I came back, they had Sante Fe College. Yeah.

They had the city police station over there; wasn’t there when I Ieft. They had integrated the schools; all the schools wasn’t like that when I left. We had our school, we wasn’t allowed to go the White school. Wasn’t allowed. They had





closed the theatre down. That’s when they picketed, integrated—they picketed the theatres, and they called it a riot, and that’s when they sat down and integrated. So, they closed all the Black schools and started accepting us to the White schools. But I wish they hadn’t’ve never did it, because they phased out all the history that we had. Everything that I remember, the twelve years that I went to that school, they tell me they did away a whole lot of it; it’s no longer—and which they should’ve preserved the school. The school is still there, but I wish they had saved all the trophies and remembered its history. It had a library; put all that in it. Because that was—my mother went to that school. My mother’ brother or sister, all went to that school. And A. Quinn was the principal of that school when my mother went to school there. That school was the only school we had, from first grade through twelfth. We only had football, basketball, baseball, softball; all that, we had that, but we didn’t have no bus. They got buses the year after I graduated. City school bus after I graduated—the year after I graduated. Now why couldn’t they—[Laughter]—all this walking I did, and then decide to get a school bus! Then they formed the school band; didn’t have that when I went to school, didn’t have no band. Got it the year after I graduated, all that happened. Well, they had football—we always had a good football team, basketball team. Softball and baseball. But if we had to travel, they had to rent a bus—charter a bus—to go out of town, play the games.

	M:	Did students get to ride that bus, too if they wanted to cheer the team on when they traveled, or did they have to travel separately?





	L:	They had to go—the only ones that was allowed to travel with the football team, it was the basketball, girls basketball and boys baseball. Who all participated in the sports was allowed to travel with the team going to the game. But all the other students, you got there the best way you could. Whoever owned a car would take you, or you hear about it when you get back. When they get back, they tell you about it.

	M:	Did you know a lot of people who owned cars at that time, or who could give you that kind of ride to—?

	L:	It was a very few peoples that owned the cars. The one that was the middle class, they used to take—Chestnut, he had the funeral home; White and Jones, he had his funeral home. The McKnights, they was the business peoples that owned the business. McKnight, he owned a pool room on 5th Avenue. Fletcher, he owned a barber shop on 5th Avenue. Gilbert, he had the shoe repair shop on 5th Avenue. And Walter Baltman, he had the beer saloon and ice cream. He sold ice cream and sandwiches. Royal Cleaners, had the cleaners on 5th Avenue.

Duncan’s Funeral Home was on 5th Avenue. Haines was a grocery store, one of the stores on 5th Avenue. That was a White. Who else? Dr. Parker, he wasn’t on 5th Avenue, but he lived there on 4th Street. Fourth, and I think it was 4th Avenue, 4th and 4th Avenue, yeah. Going on 4th and 4th Avenue. Alexander, Fred Alexander was on 5th Avenue. Dr. Cosby, he was a—Dr. Cosby was on 6th Street. He was the dentist. And it was another doctor, Dr. Banks. He came later, and he was on, I think his office was on North 6th Street, Dr. Banks. Mom’ Kitchen was on 5th Avenue, it was Frank and Lula Mae Young’ restaurant, was





on 5th Avenue. Mama Lo’s, Curtis and—what is the wife’ name? Curtis Alexander and—they restaurant was on Northwest 6th Street. Right there, right by Bethel Church, but they closed down after the two died. That was their restaurant. We had a lot of businesses, mostly on that side on 5th Avenue was only ran by the Black; and White and Jones Funeral Home, it was on 3rd Street, Northwest 3rd Street. White and Jones Funeral Home and Dorsey Funeral Home. Dorsey funeral home came, took over when Mr. White died. And by him being married to Mr. White’ daughter, he continue to run the funeral home. And Chestnut was on 8th Avenue, which his grandson still runs that. Duncan’s, they on 5th Avenue and 8th Street. And Duncan was married to Chestnut’ granddaughter, which is Charles’ sister. Charles kept running the funeral home, and Gloria was sisters, brothers, and Duncan’s married to Gloria, he’s married in the family. Old man Chestnut didn’t want that to happen; they ran away.

	M:	Oh, really?



	L:	Yeah, he took Gloria and put her in private school in Jacksonville. They tried to break that up. But they ran away and went to Georgia and got married. They stayed together until death separated them, Gloria and Duncan. Now, my father, he owneded a cleaners, but the place is not there now. It was right there on that corner up there on 5th Street, the next street—this is 5th Terrace, and the next street is 5th Street. That vacant lot, it was Al Higgins’ grocery store, Black grocery store. He had a pool room, he had a restaurant, and he had a laundromat. And facing 7th Avenue, this street here that run across, the vacant lot on that side, it





was a beer saloon. And the building across from it, behind the grocery store; facing that beer saloon was my father’s cleaners, dry cleaners.

	M:	And he owned it.



	L:	My father owned it. That was during the war. And he had the contract with Camp Blanding, that’s when they called the guys that came down, to be—had to report to Camp Blanding from the North, they bring them down here. And if they pass, they ship them out. And they clothes, civilian clothes, they had to leave. My father had the contract to go at the end of the month and pick them up, and clean them, and take them back. And they paid him fifteen cents for each pair of pants that he clean, and each shirt—he got a contract where he was making good. But he wasn’t satisfied, he wasn’t making what he could make up North; he sold it, unbeknownst to my mother and us, and went North. Sold it to the landlord that he was written the building from. Because he bought the machines and things and put them in himself. He went back to New York. Saying they wasn’t paying him what he could make by piecing. What he was making, he could make that in a day; in two, three hours, piecework, he can make it. He made good pressing. He was a spotter; it wasn’t no spot you could get on your clothes he couldn’t get it out. But he wouldn’t tell you how, what he used or nothing. And he just cleaned fur. He wouldn’t tell you what he did to clean fur. The White cleaner, they didn’t take in fur because they didn’t know how to clean it. And when he come back in, they’d be running, looking for him to get him, because he would clean it. But he wouldn’t tell them.

	M:	[Laughter] Kept his secrets.





	L:	He wouldn’t tell them. He say, “You go to school, you pay for your learning. I didn’t go to school to pay for mine; I ain’t going tell you.” But he learned his by watching. Anybody that, he’ll stand there and observe what they do, he can do it; he’ll go back and he’ll do it. But he wouldn’t tell you. Well, I came back home, and I stood up on the platform at the train station, because I couldn’t believe it. I couldn’t believe it. I didn’t take a cab, I walked. I got on that train on the track, and I walked. Because that’s the way we walked from down here going to school over there; we would walk from my house to that railroad track, it was on 6th Street. See that wasn’t no—6th Street wasn’t there. It was the little dirt road come down by the railroad, and we’d cross over the railroad. That was a little dirt road right there that went—it wasn’t paved down here, it was all dirt. Walked that dirt road—little path. Wasn’t no road, little path. We walked that path to get to that railroad, cross it over to the little dirt street. And we take it, and we walk up to Southwest 5th Avenue, which is up there. Dead end right here, that’s Southwest 5th Avenue. Then we’ll get on the railroad, and walk to 4th Avenue. Because 6th Street wasn’t through there, that was a little branch with a lot of water down here. Either you walked the track, or you walk by the railroad; it was little path you walked until you get to 4th Avenue. And that’s where they paved; it had, 4th Avenue was paved. Second Avenue was Masonic Street. Fourth Avenue was Arlington Street. See, they named them; these all new names down here. Them is not the old names.

	M:	Do you remember when they changed them?



	L:	Well, they changed them in the [19]40s during the war. I remember that.





	M:	Oh, okay. Do you know why?



	L:	I don’t know why they changed, but they gave all the—they renamed them and changed all the streets, gave them new names, which I think was much easier. The new, because a lot of people didn’t—they made their own street number name. It was, because—our street, the name was Berry, B-E-R-R-Y.

	M:	Berry Street.



	L:	Berry Street.



	M:	You mean this one, 5th Terrace, here? L:	This is Southwest—

	M:	Oh, down there.



	L:	That street back there, coming across. M:	Okay.

	L:	Mmhm. So, what they name it? Five eleven Southwest 5th Place. That’s what it was.

	M:	And you thought it was easier?



	L:	No. But it was easy to remember. But then they give it your avenue, and place, and terrace, street. [Laughter] Well, it’s the only thing I really miss from when they stopped the trains from backing into the stadium. I miss that, because we looked forward to that every year. When it time for football, season start out the university—especially when they have the big games. It’s like, when they had it Saturday, the fans start coming in on Thursdays. We hear them trains early in the morning. Hear them bells, bing-bing-bing-bing! Train be down there on Depot, where they got the jogging track? That was the track. That was the Seaboard. 6th





Street was the Coastline. The passenger train that came from New York going to St. Petersburg came down by Coastline. That was the station up there. The Seaboard, that’s the east coast, going to Miami; they come from Jacksonville to Baldwin, which—or Wildwood. You take the train from New York, they going to Miami; or you going by east coast, you go to Daytona. It’s where train—Silver Meteor? East coast, Silver Meteor didn’t come through the west coast; it came through here. The west coast go to St. Petersburg, from New York to St.

Petersburg. East coast, you leave out of Jacksonville? You either change in Wildwood; if you didn’t change in Wildwood, you going to Miami, you going east. You on the Silver Meteor. You better know where you got to change. Don’t miss your stop! Because if you leave? Them trains don’t hang around. They just stop long enough for you to hop off and—[claps]. Just do give you time to get off. I miss that, because we would go down, they couldn’t get here fast enough for us to go down. Because all the guys on the train that worked down and cooked, they would throw us change. Throw us change, and we run and we get their change, you know. But I miss that. Those trains was pretty. Beautiful. And to see all of them fans on that train, and how they was—I said, “Lord, I would like I will one day ride the train, be able to ride the train.” Because it be coming in, unloading on out that field, Florida Field. Unload, and come back, side track. Until around the third quarter, halfway through the third quarter, you see them moving out, you see them going, backing in, backing, going to load up there. Pulling out. And they had buses, charter buses. See, Florida played, they played the Yellow Jackets, and the Bulldogs. That’s when they were going to each one school. And when





they built the Gator Bowl, that’s when the Georgia Bulldogs and the Gators played in Jacksonville. Before that, they came here, and the Gators would go to Georgia. The Yellow Jackets would come here, and they would go to play the Yellow Jackets. They’d go to Miami—always, Thanksgiving game would be Miami. That was the rivalry. You know it was going be some peoples in this town. You see them that drive up, and them that ride the train, charter trains come up. So. I miss that. But they didn’t pay us much, they wouldn’t allow us to go in, but we allowed that in time for school to turn out, close down for the summer. It wasn’t much you could make because the boys who live out of town were going home, until time for school to start the next. You had to find something. So, we had to go in the field and work. When the war broke out, that’s when they raised the wages.

	M:	UF did, or you mean the—who raised the wages? L:	Hm?

	M:	Who raised the wages?



	L:	That’s when they raised, because we wouldn’t go on the farm? We got our chance to get back at them. Because we knowed they was coming and looking for us to go work. “How much you pay?” We ask, “How much you pay? No. Bring your farm here. Bring your farm in front of us, we work it!” And so what they did, they went downtown, they voted, passed a law: no vagrancy. “Where you work?” You don’t go work on the farm, you going be caught in the streets and go to jail. Vagrancy. You got to show proof where you work. You can’t show where you work, then you going to jail. You don’t be caught out there on them streets ‘til six





o’clock in the afternoon, if you not working. If you working, you better be able to prove—you walking on the streets—that you’s coming or going to work. If not, you going to jail.

	M:	Did a lot of people go to jail?



	L:	Lot of them went. [Laughter] Until they went on them farms, but they didn’t do that—they didn’t do nothing when they went out but sit down, up under the tree. Then the man got, “You don’t work, you don’t ride my truck. You get back home the best way you can.” So, he had us that way. We worked the way we wanted to. Wasn’t paying us but five cents a hamper for beans; “You pay us seventy-five cents a hamper, we pick them. Or you pick them yourself.” So, that’s how we got seventy-five cents for pick a hamper of beans. Now, you pick up the white potatoes, they was giving us three cents for a sack, a hundred pound sack, a croker sack, potatoes. And we had two wide, round baskets, [inaudible 43:56]. You put—the basket about that high, and about that big around. You put two of them baskets of potatoes in a bag, sack: that’s hundred pound. Three cent. And the war done started, now: “You pay us ten cents a bag, we’ll come and pick up your potato.” Now, three dollars for a hundred sacks of potatoes. Now, that’s a hell of a lot of potatoes to pick to make three dollars.

	M:	Yeah, it is.



	L:	They agreed to pay us ten cents a sack. Well, that’s seven dollars more than—! [Laughter] And I loved to pick up them potatoes. I can easy pick up me a hundred sacks of potatoes. If them potatoes are good, I can pick me up a hundred sacks a day. Four o’clock, I’m coming out that field. I done made me ten dollars. Then,





we’d finish that, we’ll go in tobacco. And we’ll work, we’ll hull tobacco, and when time to crop the tobacco—I never did go and crop it, but I would string it for hanging it in there, in the, not—what you call it? We’ll string it and hang it in there. I call it “smokehouse,” where they hang it to be cured.

	M:	I know what you mean, I forget the—but yeah, to put it up—



	L:	Yeah. So, I like the cropping, and I love the stringing. To get out that sun, I’d go to stringing up under the tent. They have a shade, you work up out of the sun. Out there cropping it, you in the sun. But in the shade, I liked to string it. Then we go and pick peas, butterbeans—Kentucky butterbeans, we had the little butterbeans and the big ones, fordhooks. The butterbeans, I didn’t care about picking them, because you got to pick so many and never will get the hamper full, because they flat. The fordhooks is the big ones, that’s the big butterbean; lima bean, the big lima bean. Them didn’t take that many to fill them, because they big and they fat, and I loved to pick them. I loved to pick tomatoes. I didn’t like to cut okras or eggplant, because it sting. I liked to go in the cucumbers, I liked to work them cucumbers, because I’m going eat mine first, and then what I didn’t eat I’ll pick them then. [Laughter]. Because I always kept me a little knife and a salt and pepper shaker. And the first one I pick, I’m going eat them. Tomatoes is the same way. Eggplant and okras, I didn’t bother with them, because if you didn’t know how to dress to go in that field, you never will, because you’ll get, they’ll sting you, see. Even if you got on a shirt sleeve, you going be miserable. If you didn’t know what you had to wear in the okra field or eggplant field, you’ll find out before—five minutes after you get in there, you coming out of there. Then, the





watermelon and the cantaloupes, I loveded to worked in there, because we going make the farmer mad, because we gonna bust us a couple of watermelon and cantaloupe. And he hated that!

	M:	Oh, yeah?



	L:	Oh, you’ll make a farmer mad when you take a watermelon and throw it on another one and bust it, and just take the heart out? Oh they’ll get mad, run you out of their field! Mm-mm, they didn’t like that! They’ll tell you, “Take the watermelon—if you want watermelon, get you one, and go up to the house and get your knife, but don’t just take it and throw it on another one out in the field.” They get mad with you. I did that, I worked my last shift, school, I went and worked that summer to pay for my graduation. My graduation ring cost me $12. I had a small ring. My invitation cost me $2.50. My cap and gown cost me $2.50. My mother made my dress, and I bought my shoes and my accessories—my stockings, hosiery, and my undergarment. But my graduation expense cost me around—it wasn’t quite $50.

	M:	That was a lot for the time, though, I guess.



	L:	I didn’t get my ring—I think it was about three weeks after I graduated. Because the war was still—and everything. Servicemen, everything had to go through first for the servicemen. So we had to put in our orders the first day of school, and we got it about a week after we graduate, when we got our ring. We got our ring.

	M:	Did a lot of your classmates do the same jobs or did they—what other jobs did people do?





	L:	A lot them, most of the boys was in the Service, had to go in the Service.



Because I had, my class was, twelfth grade was always over three hundred. ‘Cause see, we only had one school, and we had to have sections. They had three classes in the afternoon and three in the morning, it was so many. Then a lot of them was drafted in the Service, they went in the Service—them that was lucky to come back, and them that wasn’t fortunate to come back. I had, quite a few of my classmates got killed overseas. Them that came back went back to school and graduated. When I graduated, it wasn’t but thirty-seven of us in my class that graduated, thirty-seven. I think it was five boys, the rest of them was girls. Five boys. Because all the boys, there was so many in the Service, drafted in the Service.

	M:	Did they talk about the war a lot in school, or did you talk about—?



	L:	Yep, mmhm. Yep. My brother, he was drafted and he went in. He served in both of the wars: the Korean War and World War II. See, he was in the Army Reserve when the Korean War broke out, so he was the first there. They had to go in, they called him; them that was in the Army Reserve, they had to go report. Yep. It was—I remember December the 7th, 1942—1941, I think it was. December the 7th, that’s when World War II, when it broke out. [19]41?

	M:	Thereabouts, I think.



	L:	I think it was December, when Pearl Harbor? When they bombed Pearl Harbor. I remember, December the 7th when the Japs bombed Pearl Harbor. My brother was in Germany, and they—no it wasn’t. What was his name? Dorie Miller, it was the Colored guy that was in the Navy. And I remember my brother was drafted,





and he was on his way overseas, but we hadn’t heard from him. We didn’t know where he was going. And he was stationed in Neptune, New Jersey. And when he wrote, he told Momma that he was being shipped out, and he thinked he was going overseas. So, they was shipping him. They was going to New York to the ship. He said they was walking to the station from the camp, Neptune. He say he didn’t know where they was going, but he thought he was going to embarcation in New York. That’s where they had to be shipped out. He said, “I‘ll write you when I get where I’m going. I don’t know where I’m going, but I think I’m going overseas.” We was listening to—we had a radio, which was, we had one of them batteries. My daddy had a car battery, and he had this radio that had the ground, the pipe he had put outside, iron pipe, and had this wire, copper wire, hooked up to it on outside and through the inside to the radio, the back of the radio. Then he get them stations. So, he was trying to get the—hear what President Roosevelt— he was speaking, and the Emperor of Japan was meeting with Roosevelt in Washington when Japan bombed Pearl Harbor. And everything was a standstill. Just like it’s quiet in here? That’s just the way it was in the whole Gainesville.

Everything! Big Jim was down at the whistle that would blow twelve o’clock. It would blow seven o’clock in the morning, it would blow twelve o’clock in the day, and it would blow five o’clock in the afternoon. But when the war started, it stopped blowing. When it blow, it blow when they making a invasion. And Big Jim start blowing. Well, we thought the Jap was on their way over here, because that’s the way they was trained us. We had dug a hole underneath our house. In case of a bomb, we going to crawl and go in that hole, jump down that hole, for





protection. We had dug a deep hole up under our house. And when Big Jim blowed, that’s where we hit—[claps]—jumped up and run up under the house. [Laughter] Waiting for the airplanes, no! Mm-mm. Well, that’s all you could hear on that radio, it was talking about Dorie Miller. Every—oh, my goodness. Now he, he made a name for himself. He never shot a gun. Never. But he was in the Navy when the ship was going there and bombing, he went. And I don’t know how many planes he shot down, but he got killed, but he shot down them. He shot down many plane, Japanese plane. I think the ship he was on was Forrestall, but all those ships were down. That Emperor of Japan was meeting with President Roosevelt, and all that time he knowed that they planned to bomb Pearl Harbor. And what made us so mad, the United States was selling all scrap iron to Japan! All the scrap iron you see loaded on them cars, going north?

Selling it, shipping it over to Japan, selling them to the Japan, and they making bombs. Because we wasn’t looking to go in the war. We weren’t when Japan—all they had to do was keep on coming, because the United States didn’t have nothing. They didn’t have nothing. And that’s when they start drafting the womens, that’s when they start women going in these factories, working. The womens ran the factory, the mens had to go to war.

	M:	Did that change things around here in the neighborhood?



L:  Well, them that was able to go out—see, all the factories was up North. They had jobs up there and they working up there. Opened government jobs. And they did, they got jobs on the bases. The government paid them.

M:   What about when the war ended, what was that like?





	L:	Well, when the war ended, they still had the Navy bases. They kept, they had the Naval base, until they closed down a lot of them, this last time when they closed down. But they kept the Navy bases in there, four bases. Camp Blanding, they closed it down. They still go out there, and the Reserve, they use it, Army Reserve. They practice when they have Army Reserve, they have to report to Army Reserve. But that was—but a lot of them go. A lot of the bases is closed down now; they closed them down.

	M:	What did you do when you heard the war—? L:	Uh?

	M:	What did you do when you heard the war was over? L:	What did I do?

	M:	Yeah.



	L:	Well, when the war was ended, I was in Asbury Park, New Jersey. When Japan throwed in the flag, when Truman ordered them to drop that atomic bomb, that’s when they throwed that flag in. And I was in Asbury Park. I was on my way home from work. I was on the bus, and they announced it, and I got off on Springwood Avenue—that was the main street, avenue. All these people, soldiers and sailors, and everyone, civilians; they all jumping and singing. And I got off the bus, I wonder, “What’s happening?” “It’s no more war!” I say, “What you mean?” “The Japs have throwed in the flag, they surrender.” I said, “Thank you, Jesus,” and I start shouting. Because my brother, he was over in France, and he had wrote a letter to my mother and told her that he was being shipped, he was on his way to England. He think he was on his way home, but when they got in England, they





had orders to go in the Pacific. And that’s where he was on his way when it—. About, I think about six months after then, he come home. He was in the Reserve—even when he get out, he was in the Reserve. But when the Korean War broke out, he had to go back in. But he liveded in Nashville because his wife was from Nashville, that’s where he was living at. And he went back in, was in the Korean War when our mother died. My other brother went in the Service, Henry. He stayed in about six month. He had gotten shot before he went in the Service, and he had a bullet was still in him. But they didn’t discover it. He start having trouble with his back, and they started taking X-rays and they seen that bullet in his back. It was pressing near his spine. And they discharged him, because it didn’t happen to him while he was in there. It happened before he got in the Service.

	M:	How did that happen? How’d he get the bullet?



	L:	A friend of his, him and his buddy was playing with the gun, a .22, right over there on 5th Avenue. Playing over about a girl. And his buddy and him, his buddy’ girlfriend went to a movie with another boy, and he was going looking for the girl, but he didn’t know his friend had a gun. When they come up on them, he grab the gun—that boy come out with the gun, he end up grabbing the gun, and the boy shot him. They didn’t know he had that gun. He was intend to kill that girl and that boy. He didn’t press no charges. He told my mother, he say, “I don’t want to press no charges. He didn’t mean to do it,” he said. “I put myself in that.” He said, “I didn’t know he had that gun, and nobody else know he had the gun.” He say when he draw the—you see, because he jealous, he was going shoot that girl





and that boy. He say, “I jumped in and grabbed it, because I didn’t want to see him do that.” Put it out there, well, he would have to shoot him because I wasn’t going for no gun, now. The two went in the Army together.

	M:	Oh yeah?



	L:	Volunteered and went in the Army together. M:	Wow. That’s quite a story.

	L:	Mmhm. Now, let me see. You take each one of these little lots down here, you take that lot where my mother’ house was, our house; it was two houses. Our house and the one on the corner; that vacant lot, it was two houses over there. You take this lot right here, it was four houses. It was one facing this way, it was behind it, one on the side facing that way, and on the opposite side, one was on that side facing that way. On that corner right there was a house. Behind it was that beer saloon. On the corner was a house. On the corner up there was the store, the barber shop in the back, the pool room, the laundromat, and the restaurant—facing 5th Street. This house here on the corner, where you see that pavement? That was a little fish—man sold fish, that owneded that house there. Behind it was a house. And behind it on the other corner was a house. Now, on that corner opposite was the Foxx Nursery, Ms. Foxx’ nursery. Now, she had two houses: one on the corner, and the one behind it. There was the house on the corner and the one behind it, still there. Then she had a little candy store which she tore down, and she built her house and her nursery. And then, the church is on the opposite side. Now all these vacant lots, there’re houses that was on them. It was a lot of houses down here. Each one of these houses had a lot of





children. If it wasn’t two, it’s three; if it wasn’t three, it’s four; it’s five or six. And now, Ms. Foxx had sixteen. Mr. and Mrs. Boylan had sixteen. Mr. and Mrs.

Stevens had eleven. Mr. and Mrs. Ceroy Leath, my father and mother, had nine. And up the corner from them, five and six. Two and three, and four, children.

There was a lot of children down here. And a lot of them died, and a lot of them moved out. And a lot of them left. Them that left didn’t come back, who would come and took their place was people come up from other places, moving in.

Now, that’s what I don’t know, because it’s a lot of my family and a lot of my friends that I grew up with, no longer living here. And all them that not here, that moved away, that was staying here, is dead that’s staying here. The ones that moved, well, they still away, but they come home every now and then. And I may run up on them. I just may run up on them; if I don’t run up, I take for granted they no longer here with us. Because a lot of them passed, a lot of them gone. I come back and I question when I run up on some of my classmate, or some of my friends, someone that I grew up with and I know—I’ll stop, that I recognize? I ask them about different ones, they tell me they no longer living, you know? So, I got tired of hearing that. I say, “Well, I’m not going ask them. I’ll take for granted they no longer here.” So I stopped. And now, the last I remember, I only had five of us out of my class still living.

	M:	Those five live in Gainesville still, or did they—?



	L:	Mmhm, yeah. Yeah. I see a lot that I grew up with that I’ve—take Mr. Thomas Coward, and his brother Lawrence Coward. He got more sisters here living, Joanne. His sister Joanne and I graduated from high school, but Thomas Coward





and my sister, my oldest sister, they were classmates. And my sister, she passed, but Thomas is still living. And J.W., he’s a retired teacher from Lincoln High; all of them went to Lincoln High.

	M:	G.W.? Who’s G.W.?



	L:	J.W. Welch, he was a teacher at Lincoln High. Thomas Coward, he was the mayor at one time, he had a city commission, and a county commission; Thomas Coward. You take Juanita Parker, Richard Parker? He was a musician at Eastside. He was director, taught music at Eastside; director of the Eastside band. He graduated from Lincoln High. All these names was classmates graduated [inaudible 1:17:19] Lincoln High. Richard Parker, Mr. Richard Parker. Bobby, Ora Lee Hayes, Baron Hayes, Bill Sanders. Bill Sanders, he workeded at Shands, he taught, what you—? When somebody die they perform autopsies, what you call them?

	M:	Coroner, you mean?



	L:	No, unh-uh. He taught this at University of Florida.



	M:	Oh—not sure of the word. But, so he taught—when did he teach at UF?



	L:	He retired, but he dead now, he died. He been there for a little over two years, he had cancer. But he retired at the university. He taught, when somebody died, he taught that. When somebody going to be a doctor and they have to teach—they study the body, cut the body, what you call it?

	M:	Oh, anatomy?



	L:	Yeah hon, that’s what he taught. Mmhm, Bill Sanders. M:	I see.





	L:	Yeah, he retired, University of Florida. Mmhm. Dr. Banks, he was a pediatrician. A family doctor, mostly baby doctor. He was good with babies, but he wasn’t no other medicine there. And Dr. Parker’ daughter was married to the dentist, what his name? He died.

	M:	Dr. Cosby, you mean?



	L:	Yeah, Dr. Cosby. Now, he was married to Dr. Parker’ daughter, Leslie. Doctor’ baby, youngest daughter. She still living. She and her oldest sister still the onliest two living. And they live in the old family household there.

	M:	Oh, yeah?



	L:	Over there, the house still there. M:	Where is that?

	L:	It’s right there on 4th Street. You know where the pawn shop right there? On 6th Street?

	M:	Yeah, yeah the—



	L:	Right here by Santa Fe? M:	Uh-huh.

	L:	That street that run there by that pawn shop? Take it and go back towards, like you going back to 3rd Street.

	M:	Okay.



	L:	And it’s right there on that last house on the left, on the corner, upstairs house.



That’s the house.



	M:	Oh, okay.



	L:	Between 4th and 3rd.





	M:	I see. So over in the—I guess they call it the Pleasant Street area now, or the— L:	Not on the Pleasant Street.

	M:	No?



	L:	Unh-uh. Pleasant Street is the next street over from 3rd.



	M:	Oh, I mean the area, they call the neighborhood there, some people call it the—



	L:	Oh, you know where I tell you how you can find it? It’s right there—they got some big old upstairs houses they saving, they working on. You go back up like you going back towards University. On 4th Street—you take 5th Avenue on 4th Street. When you get to—if you ever you go to 4th Street, then you take 4th Street and come over like you coming to University. And it’s the last house on the left.

	M:	Oh, okay.



	L:	Upstairs. Uh-huh. That’s the old Parker homestead. Uh-huh, yeah. Now the house, those upstairs houses there, that was one on the corner was two of my teachers: Ms. Henley, and Ms. Rivers. Ms. Rivers, she owneded the house. She died. Ms. Henley, she taught first and third grade; she was Ms. Rivers’ sister-in- law. Her brother was married to Ms. Rivers. So when Ms. Rivers died, she came into that property. And that’s where Ms. Henley’ children own it, got it, because she died and her husband died. She had three girls; the girls own it.

	M:	I see. Do they rent it out, or did they live there, any of them?



	L:	I think one of them, a daughter, one of Ms. Henley’ granddaughters living there.



	M:	I mean, it seems like one of the things that’s changed is that a lot of people have moved out.





	L:	Yeah, because all these down here now, most of them is peoples that moved here that I don’t know nothing about. Because the older ones is all gone. And then, the one that I know now is Mr. Brooks, and he the oldest one out of them. He’s up there in his—I think he should be about a hundred and some years old.

	M:	That’s what I’ve heard.



	L:	Mmhm, because if my mother and father had lived, they would’ve been a hundred—a hundred ten. They were born in 1902.

	M:	Wow. Did you know Mr. Brooks? I mean, I guess—



	L:	Yeah, raised up around his family. And then he, my mother, my father, and his wife was good friends, and his parents. He wasn’t born in Gainesville; he come from Otter Creek. Gulf Hammock, ever heard of that? They come up here, that’s where they was born and raised, now. But they came up—the man that owneded, that manufactured—the box manufacturer. Owneded and had a crate mill down there; they worked it for him. And when he came up, he brought them up and they moved here. Brooks’ daddy was a carpenter, he did carpenter work. And they all workeded for that Atkins. And he brought him up here. All of his peoples that wanted to come up, and he opened that factory, he brought them up. And they worked with him until they all died. He brought the Richardson family, he brought the Danzy family, he brought the White family, he brought the Brooks family; oh, he brought a lot of them up when he opened this factory up here. That’s who was running all this here, over there. And then he had hired working, he had it running day and night, twenty-four hours.





	M:	What did people living here think of that? Just, that many people coming up and moving in, was that—?

	L:	Well, they didn’t—you know. [Laughter] There wasn’t nothing they could do; work coming in. See, back in then, the White peoples, they ran—you know, we workeded for different ones. My mother, she did laundry; my sister’ grandmother, she did laundry work. My mother, on the side, did seamstress, sewing; took in sewing. And then went and did housework; working, cleaning. And I did, when I got of age; right around thirteen, I’d babysit, I would go and babysit. You want to go to a movie, or a ball game, you need a baby-sitter? And they would come to the school and request anybody wanted to work, get permission from your parent, and they’d send word by your children to the principal that you get permission from them. All they had to do was call the principal and ask for permission to excuse you, have you be excused to babysit. Especially when the war was on, see. That wasn’t a problem, all that mattered was the excuse that you going, because you was helping the Service peoples.

	M:	I guess you got to, I mean, know a lot of the kids around here that way, too, then, huh?

	L:	Mmhm, yeah. I was working for a family from Chicago. My boss was Captain Sprague, and Marjorie’ boss was Major Rose. My boss was a captain in the Army, and he was from Chicago. And they were stationed out Camp Blanding. And so, when they go to a movie or game, Marjorie and I, we babysit. I went to Daytona for two weeks with them, for vacation, and I wasn’t used to it. I was scared of water. Down there around all that water, they had the blackout. And





see, at night—I wasn’t scared in the day, because I could see. But everything go black at night; you didn’t see no light. Everything, you had to cut them lights off. And that’s where I got scared, because I was scared them Germans was going come up in submarines? [Laughter] And I’ll never forget: I was sitting on the beach with the two—Jody and Jo-Jo—I had them down playing in the sand, and they was wading in the water. But they couldn’t go no further than they ankle, wade out. If they go any farther, “You got to come out! Because I can’t come in there!” I was afraid; I explained that to them. I didn’t know how to swim. And I couldn’t go in, I wasn’t going. And tell the children to don’t go no further than ankle-deep I say, because if they go in there, “I can’t go in that water. Because I’m not going. Y’all get you somebody. Because I’m letting you know: I’m not going in that water. I can’t swim. Now, if you want me to babysit, I’ll sit, as long as they will mind me.” I was sitting in the sand playing with Jody. Jo-Jo walked out, and he wasn’t no more than ankle deep. He say, “Mamie! Look!” And what it was, it was a porpoise. It was in a school, swimming. And it was about five of them, with the one in the head just jumped up, and they was just going up, just behind each other. I say, “Them whales!” I didn’t know. [Laughter] And I started running. Didn’t stop ‘til I got to the hotel. I told them, “Y’all go and see about them. Them whales going get them!” They said, “Mamie, them isn’t nothing but a porpoise.

They harmless. They not—.” I said, “I can’t go back down there. You better go see about them.” [Laughter] I start crying; “I want go home to my mother. I got to go home, y’all take me home.” You know them peoples had to bring me back to Gainesville?





	M:	Wow.



	L:	They got here, Momma say, “What that is, what you do did?” They told Momma, they had to cut they vacation; said they couldn’t hardly do nothing but I was crying, scared. I was trembling; I was scared. And I wasn’t going back down there. And I didn’t go back; I say, “I want to go home to my momma.” The next place I went to with them was Cedar Key. But I didn’t go in the water. I didn’t go down on the beach, the sand split, because you have to be off of there when them tides come in; you better get off there, them tides coming in. I knowed all that, I knowed about that out there. All I wanted to do was get out of Cedar Key. The night, when time [inaudible 1:35:18] “We better start loading up, leaving; you all wanna stay, take me as far away from here, and you all can stay and come back when you feel it. But get me out of here!” I managed with that, but they didn’t stay, just went down there for a day. And I rode with them, but they can go in the water, and watch they children. Walking with them and showing them around. I worked for him until he was shipped out and went overseas. And she went back in Chicago, she and the children. Wanted me to go back with them.

My mother couldn’t hear that; no. Think. Trying to think now, what else I know?



	M:	Well, you had something in mind, or—? I mean, I’m interested, I guess, in—you came back, and Gainesville had changed a lot.

	L:	Oh yeah, I came back in [19]79, and I didn’t know, I really didn’t know whether I was going, coming the right way, but I got on the railroad track, and I walkeded it. How I could tell I was coming right, when I got to Southwest 5th Avenue and 6th Street, I could see my grandmother’ house. I could see all the houses were still





there when I left, and everybody I left, they were still there sitting on the porch. As I walk, I put my luggage and things in the lockers. I say, “I’ll get my uncle to bring me back up here later on to get my luggage.” I just put them in the locker. So, they didn’t know I was in town. I was walking, and they was all sitting on the porch. My aunt say, “Lilly, ain’t that Mamie Lee?” She say, “No, Mamie Lee in New York.” She said, “Not that ain’t—that Mamie Lee!” [Laughter] And when she recognized me, I was on the porch. And I was smiling, and uncle and I was doing—. [Laughter] He say, “That’s Mamie Lee.” I could hear him, “That’s Mamie Lee.” She say, “No, Mamie Lee in New York.” He say, “No that ain’t, that’s Mamie Lee!” When I walked up, stepped up on the porch, I say, “How can I be in New York and I’m on your porch?” [Laughter] She jumped up. “Oh, my God! I didn’t know who you was! Walter kept saying, ‘Is that Mamie Lee?’ When you—?” I say, “I just came.” [Laughter] “Came on the train that just passed.” I say, “I didn’t let y’all—I wanted to sneak up on you.” I said, “Yeah, come on, watch, I’m going stay.” And the children, they where my brother living at. He—no, he didn’t know I was living down here. They hadn’t bought the house up there, they was working on it. They had bought it, but he was doing the renovation on it. They was still renting it, living down there; the house is still down there. But they come around this way, and came down to 5th Terrace. And came in the street there, and was running—and they was going beat me, but I beat them there. But they had stopped in different one house. They didn’t know, they hadn’t forgot. They wanted to come down and stay, and get out of the city. They got tired of it.

Because they got that drug and stuff got so bad in the schools up there, and I got





tired of fighting, and all of them going to school with them gangs. When they say, “Momma, let’s go to Florida and live.” “You want to go down there and live?” They say, “Yeah.” They got tired of it, because that’s a problem up there in those schools. I said, “Okay. Well, pack what you need and leave what you don’t need, because we can always buy when we get where we going. Because this furniture and stuff, it’s giving out, and it ain’t worth taking down to Florida.” I couldn’t buy them no bikes and things like that, because in the area where we was living, that drug was bad, and them drug addicts, they would steal. And I wasn’t going work and pay for stuff they done stole from me and my children didn’t get a chance to enjoy it; or my furniture, I didn’t get a chance—you could go to work and come, scared to go in, scared to put the key in the lock, scared somebody done went and cleaned out. So, I always told them, “I’m going get you a little something, but when we ever go back to Florida and live in my home, I’m going make it up to you. But Momma just cannot waste her money like this.” And I did that. I got here, I got me a apartment, and I got me a house. Got me two jobs.

	M:	Where’d you work?



	L:	And I worked on them jobs until I got ready to retire. M:	Which jobs were those?

	L:	Cooking.



	M:	Cooking? Where at?



	L:	I cookeded for a private family. M:	Okay.





	L:	Mmhm, I cookeded for the Frageys, out to Turkey Creek; that’s the last family I worked for. And I workeded for the Gills family, that’s the first family I worked. When I got ready to retire, I got something with—I thought I was having a heart attack. Fluid built up. Found out it wasn’t my heart. I had the doctor discover I had tumors on my left kidney, and I had tumors on my ovaries. It wasn’t cancer. They caught it in time, but they had to take out my left kidney, and give me a full hysterectomy. I beat it. And they did that in 2006. Then behind that, I had a bladder infection, operated on my bladder. And all three of those was in one month, did it in September 2006. And I never felt the pain, never had a pain.

	M:	It was just there?



	L:	Ain’t had no pain; was starving me to death. I kept fighting until they come, they brought me some food. Everything they brought me, I send it right back to the kitchen. “I want me something to eat.” I had them scared. I told them, I say, “I want me some food. I’m hungry, you starving me to death. I’m hungry! When is you all gonna bring me some food? Don’t bring me no more of this water!” “Well, you can’t eat nothing, you had this surgery.” I’m going eat me something if I got to have somebody slip it in to me; y’all better bring me something!” [Laughter] They sure did. Bring me a little piece of chicken breast, mashed potatoes, and lettuce—little piece of lettuce and a little slice of tomato—and a little thing of Jell-

O. They told me to eat that, so she had—my stomach, because I had the surgery, I say, “Y’all better go and fix some more, because this here going down in one—because I’m hungry.” [Laughter] And the doctor come in shaking his head. He said, “You don’t have no pain in you?” I said, “I told you I ain’t in no





pain; I’m hungry.” “In case you have pain, here are some painkillers.” I say, “I don’t want them things. Not going take them! You ain’t going get me addicted to these here painkillers! I don’t have no pain, I told you! I’m hungry, and you’re starving me to death!” [Laughter] My roommate, the lady that was in the room with me, she was Puerto Rican. Her husband had sneaked her a steak and a baked potato. And she told him to cut me half of that steak and half of that potato. And every time he brought her something, he had to cut it, brought me. And when you see him coming off that elevator? We start pulling the curtains around the bed. [Laughter] When she was discharged, she said, “Keep your fingers crossed. I’m going send you something up by my husband.” I say, “I’ll be looking for it.” Ain’t never complained, and they never felt the pain from all that I eat. And the doctor teased me every time I go for my check-up: “You ain’t in any pain?” “Not a one, I don’t have a pain.” “You still eat?” “Healthy!” [Laughter] I go for a check-up tomorrow, and that’s my kidney doctor. That’s to check on my— see how I’m doing. Have to have some blood work. So far, I’m doing pretty good. But they have to monitor and do bloodwork every time I go to my appointments. They have to do bloodwork to see how my cholesterol, and check my blood pressure, and check calcium, vitamin D. I had a prescription filled yesterday, and they sent me some papers that the pill that I take, that it’s a vitamin D, they find out something for me to take the paper and give it to my doctor, and let her check it out. And if she find out that this medicine is affecting my blood, might because of this cancer, she should take me off of them. So, I didn’t take it after that, I said, “You don’t have to tell me to tell her, I’m going tell myself. I’m going take it off





myself.” I didn’t take them today, this morning. And I ain’t going take it ‘til I get there tomorrow and see what she say.

	M:	Understandable. What kinds of changes have you seen in the neighborhood and elsewhere since you’ve been back?

	L:	Well—



	M:	So, since [19]79 up to now.



	L:	Well, everything. Because they have built these houses. They built Porters Oaks since I’ve been here. They built—now, up here where they built these new apartments, 4th Avenue, where the Greyhound bus station was. That was, the Greyhound bus station wasn’t there. It was houses, a lot of houses. Greyhound bus station was downtown, on—see, it was Main Street. Then it was South Main. I’m going tell you, you know where they got the new motel downtown?

	M:	The new motel.



	L:	The new motel or hotel. M:	Mmhm.

	L:	You know where Bo-Diddley? M:	Mmhm, mmhm.

	L:	You know where that motel?



	M:	Okay, so down that way. All right.



	L:	In that where that motel is built, that little street that comes down by and go down where the old original post office?

	M:	Okay.





	L:	Well where they got the motel—now where the motel, its where behind it, right across the street from it, they got sandwich. Well, right in there, that’s where the old Greyhound bus station was. Going further down on the little street that the post office was on, right on the side of that was the Gainesville Sun. That’s where the Gainesville Sun was. Then the old post office. Then right across, coming back, from the post office to come back, you come into Main Street is a little vacant lot, right on the corner. That was a theatre there. Then the funeral home that was on that corner. Now, that on Main Street, where the county courthouse, the courthouse on Main Street? All that was houses on both sides. Right on the corner of 2nd Avenue, that was a hotel. Right on that corner. They does—what is it, the city or the county, where they does land? Where they measure your property. What they call it?

	M:	Oh, surveying?



	L:	Yeah, right on the corner there. It’s upstairs building on the corner, Main and 2nd Avenue, right across, right opposite the courthouse. That was Arlington Hotel.

Where the train station was, is the bank on Main Street. They changed the name. Wachovia, where Wachovia bank was?

	M:	Mmhm?



	L:	That was the original train station there. See, when I left here and went to Tampa, the train was coming up Main Street. It would stop down there on Depot, coming from St. Petersburg. It would stop, completely stop, at Depot and Main. And that was a hill. That train would blow three times, and be able to go up and





stop, the passenger train, at that train station. When it moved, they moved it over here on 6th Street and 5th Avenue.

	M:	Then after that, it became the college. Santa Fe College.



	L:	Mmhm, they closed it. They took the train off, they took it out, cut it off, and they closed it down. Then it stayed closed, then they opened it up. And the college bought that land.

	M:	So why do you think—I mean, it seems like people talk about how North 5th Avenue up there, there used to be a lot of businesses. And now there’s still a few, but not as much.

	L:	Before they closed the school, Lincoln High—see, all of those was owned, Black business. That was the middle-class Black, liveded over there, and they business. When they closed the school down, a lot of the Black business phased out. See?

	M:	So, it’s a community thing, or it’s—?



	L:	Yeah, I imagine so. Because you take, they had the Black restaurant—because they wasn’t allowed to go to the White. See, after they admitted it now, accept them, that’s not the Black business. All the business went.

	M:	And so that’s what happened down here in this neighborhood, too? The businesses just kinda fizzled out, or—?

	L:	I don’t know, because most of the business didn’t have no restaurant. They had little juke, little beer saloon that sold sandwiches and sodas, and black market moonshine. But they didn’t have no license to sell whiskey, because it was a dry





county. You had to go to Marion County to buy alcohol. Because Alachua County was dry. You would go to Marion County, or you would go to Williston.

	M:	For the moonshine, too, or did people make the moonshine?



	L:	The moonshine, and you can get the whiskey, because it was a wet county. You go down there and buy the whiskey, and bring it back and bootleg it. Take your chances, because the revenue men could come in and go and bust you. You get caught selling that moonshine, you going to jail, you going to prison. They got a lot of them. The law, they was crooked. They go and make the bus with the revenue. And the sheriff was in on it. And when they leave, the sheriff got it right back out there, selling it. Got them out there selling it for him. And they would come, and if it time for them to come and make a raid, they going come and let you know to get everything—because you selling it for them. Yeah. And that’s the way they made they money. Or the bolita, numbers; they had that. They had the bolita. Now, that’s what helped mostly the poor people, selling the bolita.

	M:	Oh, yeah?



	L:	Yep, the numbers. It wasn’t legal, but the sheriff, they all of them, they was in it, crooked. They was getting a payoff. And when they coming in and going make a raid, they’ll come and notify. They’ll get in touch with the banker, and they’ll come around and notify whoever working for them. “Just lay low,” such and such a thing. Get everything out, get in the clear. See? So, what they do, a lot of them— the banker liveded in Ocala. The big banker liveded here, and he came from Lake City, here. And that’s Mr. Thomas. Sheriff Ramsey is the one that took him around to all the ones that was down here selling the numbers, and told them,





“Put this one to work.” He tell him, “You going die selling the number.” He the one brought Thomas in; Thomas was paying him off. And onliest thing, how he got busted: he wasn’t filing tax. And he had to go and serve some time for income tax. And everybody that sold for him, when he came out, he had to take out tax out of they wages and social security, selling the numbers. That helped a lot of peoples.

	M:	Oh, yeah?



	L:	Them peoples liveded off that bolita. And not only was the Black, it was a lot of White would come, the farmers—even the polices coming out, putting in they numbers.

	M:	Everybody.



	L:	Yeah.



	M:	How often would you win?



	L:	It only came out on Saturdays, and they got the number. If you speak Spanish, Puerto Rican, Cuban? If you can speak Cuban, you get you a short-wave radio, if you speak it, you could pick it up. They throw the number every Saturday at one o’clock. If you could speak it, get you a short-wave radio. Sometime, the number come out early, and the books still, they be still out here working. Many times they had hit that banker, because the number come out early, and they come around buying that number. Yeah, ‘til he got off. He paid Mr. P.C. Marshall, that was a fireman on the train? He paid Mr. P.C. Marshal to leave here, because he was the one getting the number. He sold the Pittsburgh Courier out of Philadelphia. Every Wednesday, that paper come out. People be reading. Sunny





Boy. They said Sunny Boy had the number on it. Peoples waiting on P.C. come around, sell the Pittsburgh on Saturdays. When he come through, he tell them the number. Many times, he come through here, and you see him going—man, they tearing them up! My mother hit, finish paying for our home. She hit seventy, and the landlord sold that house to my mother for $800. Two bedroom house.

Well, back then, they didn’t have flush toilets, they had outside houses. All these houses down here wasn’t connected, didn’t have a sewer, you had outhouse.

	M:	When did they put in the plumbing?



	L:	We had our plumbing put in—my brother went in the Army—my mother had it put in. Think it was [19]40? [19]41? Yeah, [19]41, after he went into Service. Had it hooked up. Because see, the sewer line didn’t run—he had to run it from 5th Street to our house. But it didn’t cost as much as it would cost you now. Now they got it, they got it all the way through here on these streets down the sewer line. But it’s a lot of houses that’s still on cesspool.

	M:	Oh, yeah?



	L:	It’s a lot of them.



	M:	In this neighborhood in particular?



	L:	In this neighborhood, it’s still on cesspool. Mmhm, yeah.



	M:	I mean, I guess this is a good place to stop for today. Did you have any other thoughts you wanted to—?

	L:	No, I don’t. I have to think of some more. M:	Well in that case, thank you very much. L:	Mmhm.





[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Toni-lee Maitland, November 25, 2013 Audit edited by:	Anna Jimenez, August 14, 2014

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, June 25, 2019