AAHP 045; Williams; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 045 Rosa B. Williams African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Leah Levin on June 1, 2009 44 minutes | 27 pages



Abstract: Rosa B. Williams is a Gainesville Civil Rights Movement veteran. She relates some of her family history, and her experiences living in Gainesville and Bronson. She explains how she first got involved in the Civil Rights Movement, and describes some of the direct action campaigns that she was involved with, as well as her involvement with the Gainesville Women for Equal Rights (GWER). She also offers some reflections relating the election campaigns for Barack Obama in 2008 to the organizing that went into voter registration drives during the Movement in the 1960s. Mrs. Williams describes some of what it was like to live under Jim Crow segregation in Gainesville, and assesses the degree and significance of the changes that she has seen since the Movement.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County; Levy County; Civil Rights Movement; Integration]









































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 045

Interviewee: Rosa B. Williams Interviewer: Leah Levin

Date: June 1, 2009



	L:	This is Leah Levin and Rosa Williams on June 1st, 2009, and the interview is taking place at the—

	W:	Tacachale.



	L:	Tacacharlie Community. W:	Center—yeah, okay.

	L:	Rosa, could you please tell me when and where you were born? W:	I was born in Starke, Florida in 1933.

	L:	Now, I read in your previous interview that you moved to Gainesville when you were about two months old.

	W:	It was between two and three months, yeah.



	L:	And you do you know why you made the move?



	W:	Because my mother was staying over there with my father, which, they was not married. And when—just before I was born, he left her with another lady. So, my mother’ older sister, who was living here, they came to Starke and they got her.

	L:	That’s really interesting. And what are your parents’ names?



	W:	My parents, my mother’ name was Katherine Baker at that time; my father’s name was Lucius Williams.

	L:	I read that your mother, Katherine Baker, had a hard life growing up, farming in Georgia. Was this sharecropping?

	W:	No. Now, that was—when she, she had left Georgia before I was born. That was sharecropping, working on farms, working in people’s houses, and things. She and all of the rest of her family. My grandmother, her mother, was in slavery time





and everything, they was working for a family out from Willacoochee, and I can’t think of the town’ name. And then, when my grandmother got married, then they moved from that little country town on into Willacoochee, Georgia.

	L:	Oh, okay. And when your mother grew up in Willacoochie, how did this impact her childhood growing up, and therefore your childhood growing up?

	W:	I think it impacted, taught her how to work and take care of her family and everything. Because when she came here—when they came here, she and her other sister and things, you know, they didn’t have any children or anything. They just came here with other family members.

	L:	And they started from scratch? W:	Mmhm.

	L:	Oh, my goodness. Please tell me about Lucius Williams, your father, and then Roosevelt Hayes, who you called your dad.

	W:	Okay, I can’t tell you too much about my father because I don’t know too much about him. When I was thirteen years old, we seen each other for the first time, and I went back, I went over there and stayed about two weeks with he and the lady he was with. And I did not like they place, and I called my mother and she sent me a bus ticket and I went back. But Roosevelt, he, I consider him as my daddy. He’s my daddy.

	L:	I have the same situation, by the way.



W:   But he had a daughter which was my same age and everything, and his wife was a alcoholic, and she had ran off, and so he had the daughter living right round the corner from us. So, when he asked my mother if she, if since they had a houseful





of kids, if they would keep, if she would keep Marie, and so she decided to keep Marie, and that’s how they got together.

	L:	That’s awesome. Can you please tell me about your siblings?



	W:	I have a brother who is dead. I have a sister who is dead. I have a half-brother in Archer, and I have a baby sister here in Gainesville.

	L:	So most of your family lives in Gainesville?



	W:	Mmhm. A lots of them, but a lots of them in other places like Cocoa, Ft. Myers, Fort Pierce, Georgia, and all around.

	L:	I’m from the Fort Pierce area. W:	Mmhm.

	L:	Please tell me about your school experiences. Where did you attend, and does anything stick out in your mind from that time?

	W:	The only thing would stick out in my mind is I went to—before my mother and Roosevelt, my stepfather, got together, I went to A. Quinn Jones School for a while. But then, when they got married, we moved to Bronson. And then, I went to school in Bronson. The thing what stick out in my mind, we went to junior high school in Bronson, and we had a one-room classroom. That was really neat. We would go up, taking our own lunch. But the thing, what really stuck out in my mind when I got older is, we had to walk by the White school to get to the Black school. And if you liveded on the Cedar Key side of Bronson, you was transferred to Williston when you went to the high school on the bus. But if you liveded on the Archer side of Bronson, then you came into Archer.

	L:	And you went to Williston.





	W:	Williston, yes.



	L:	And Williston was a segregated high school? W:	Mmhm.

	L:	And did you bus there? W:	Yeah, mmhm.

	L:	And how was that school? What were your experiences like?



	W:	My experience with that school is in, even back in Bronson when we was walking to those schools, the teachers were more concerned then, and the kids learnt more than we do now. And I should not say this because you are a teacher, but you know, we had a—

	L:	That’s why I became a teacher.



	W:	Yeah, we had a one-room classroom. And you was there, and the teacher seemed to be more concerned about you, though. They talked to the parents more about it and everything. So.

	L:	And your teacher was Reverend Eliju Mobley? W:	No, Raymond Mobley.

	L:	Raymond Mobley. And he had a big impact on you as a teacher? W:	Mmhm.

	L:	How so?



	W:	Because he was really was concerned about us, and he was rooming with my mother and them. He was staying in the house then, because he was from Gainesville here, and he had a really, really big concern about just about all the kids.





	L:	While you were in school, did you have any negative interactions with the White children? You know, as you were walking past?

	W:	Mm-mm. No. We all got along real fine. If they parents had listened to their kids, you know, we were living in Bronson down there in the area? And everybody down there was poor. And the people need to support each other. They kids got along real fine. It was the parents.

	L:	The kids were a community. It was the parents where it became an issue?



	W:	Mmhm. Yeah, we used to play all together. We just could not go to school together.

	L:	You don’t really see color when you’re a child, it happens when you grow older. W:	Mmhm.

	L:	I agree. I read that you have a love of history. And how has your love of history influenced you in your life and your career paths?

	W:	Because I wanted to go back and just see just what happened in slavery time, and with the Blacks and the Indians and everything, and what happened during that time. And that was what I did.

	L:	Please tell me about Jane Sterrett, and how and when you met.



	W:	Okay, I met her a long time ago. I was working on two or three jobs. And I came to work for her as a babysitter, and then I started to working for her more hours, and she was great. She came from New York, and she was very much into the civil rights, equal rights for everybody. And when she found out that I was not involved with anything, she kept pushing me and pushing me. So the first thing she did was made me go up and get a library card, which taken me about three





or four months. And then she made me, kept on asking me about joining the Democrat Club. And I had—well, we ate together all the time. We ate breakfast and, you know, lunch or something. Well, she had the car, I went to—my first meeting was a luncheon. And she set the place and told me what was going to happen, you know, how to cut meat and everything, and do all that. And during the time I was working for her, her three kids, they was at P.K. Yonge. And at that time, it was segregation still ‘round here in town. So how the Black kids and the White kids got together, the Black kids would go to some of the Whites’ house and things, and she was one of those people. She was the one who encouraged me to get involved with the civil rights and apply for things. And they’d use me like a guinea pig in lots of things.

	L:	Oh! [Laughter] A guinea pig. How so?



	W:	Jean Chalmers and I—would always team up with her—and I would go into a place to apply for something and they would tell me no, and then Jean would go in, and they would—you know.

	L:	I read that; that’s phenomenal. So Jane Sterrett was a huge influence in your life, and starting you on your path?

	W:	Jane Sterrett. Yeah. Mmhm. Mmhm.



	L:	Now, during the 1950’s and [19]60’s, you were hugely involved in the Civil Rights Movement, by the picketing and protesting. How else were you involved? Can you please give me some specifics, maybe?

	W:	We would go, as I say, to down to places in order to see if we would get served. We also was involved with—at that time, they had places, Black peoples, if they





wanted assistance with clothing, welfare, and things, at the library, they had one little cubbyhole which they used to go into, and so we worked to get that changed. The Boys Club, which is right down here on the Waldo Road and 8th Avenue was not segregated. They had one little shack, like, out in the southeast area, like where the Blacks used to go at with this big one down here. We worked to get that changed. And we worked on the United Way board to get that changed, to get me elected to it, to get that changed, because they was giving money, but wasn’t nothing happening there with the Blacks. So anything what needed to be worked on, I was involved with it.

	L:	Why do you think the UF professors and wives were so helpful during this time? W:	I don’t know, but if it was not for them, we probably would have never made it.

One point, we said the University of Florida probably had to close down because they all was out there. We met every night—it’s Pleasant here, now, Reverend Mayberry which is latest pastor, the pastor there now—but we met every night up to Mt. Carmel church just to see just what direction we was going to do, and what had happened the day before, and what’s going happen tomorrow.

	L:	Without their support, how would things have been different?



	W:	I don’t think we would have made any changes too much, because you know we had a lots of their support to sit down to the table with us, you know? That’s like I’m telling anybody now, you can stay on each side of the fence and fight, but you’re not going get nowhere until you come together.

	L:	Very true.



	W:	And with their support, we was able to do that.





	L:	And, when did you join the NAACP? Because I know you’re the vice president. W:	A long, long, long time ago. That was during the Civil Right Movement time.

	L:	So the [19]50s, [19]60s?



	W:	Mmhm, mmhm.



	L:	And you’ve been actively a part of it ‘til now? W:	No. No, I’m not in it now.

	L:	Oh, excuse me!



	W:	I have not been a member in a long time, because I am a community person, and a lots of the organization since, I’d say—Black peoples can buy cars, or buy fine house, and some have good salary; they seem to have forgot about they community. The peoples who are still down there, as I call it, “in the ditch,” what need help. So, a lots of those organizations, I just taken my membership out and put all my efforts—because I’m getting older—into organizations what was really doing things in the community. Because we need to put all of our effort and energy into Black young peoples these days, especially the males. Helping them get out of school, get through school. And I don’t have time to go and sit in a organization just to be sitting.

	L:	I think you’re amazing. I read—excuse me—they were talking about the fire hoses, and the typical police interactions with people, Black people, during the 1950’s and [19]60’s, and you said you had never been arrested and your life had never really been threatened in the 1950’s. But you mentioned something very interesting: you said that phone calls were being made. I was wondering, why?

For what?





	W:	Because I was out there working the Civil Rights Movement. But the person who made the phone calls would not call me but just one time, because time that they would start out, I would lay one of those old fashioned cussings on them, and they hung up on me.

	L:	But this was in the 1980’s? This is supposed to be past the Civil Rights Movement!

	W:	Mmhm, mmhm.



	L:	Do you know why? Was there a specific event that maybe—? W:	No, it just, you know, it just was—.

	L:	Hateful people?



	W:	I think a lots of that probably, probably, still going on right here with some peoples now, but it just is more covered up now, you know. You don’t see it.

	L:	That was my next question for you, actually. You mentioned something: at least you knew about George Wallace, at least you knew where he stood. And now, with Whites and Blacks, you don’t know.

	W:	Mmhm. Yeah, I would prefer to know with someone like George Wallace because you knew where they stand, other than someone that’s supposed to be friends to you and they are not friends to you. That’s just like anyone, you know? They will grin in your face and do all this and do all that, but they get behind you, and they stab you in the back.

	L:	Now have you had any specific instances where this has happened? Maybe in your own community, or just in general?





	W:	I have seen it happen probably more out with other peoples, but because I am such a outgoing person, and I say what I’m going say, peoples talk about me or try to dig a ditch for me, but I always keep myself up on solid ground. Whatever I do, you know? So.

	L:	Tell me about your involvement with the community now. Because I have pages



of things! [Laughter]



	W:	Yes, I’m very much involved with the community: the Black on Black Crime Task Force, the Girls to Young Ladies, all of the Neighborhood Watch programs, all of the Crimewatch programs, the Reichert House—which Black on Black built—and we bought some more land, get some money, and we going build the Girls to Young Ladies program. I sits on the Bread of the Mighty food bank board, also helping with that. And I do a lots of stuff out in the community. I am the chairperson of Florida Highland, what just closed Seminary Lane, and so, that was what that phone call was about.

	L:	Okay, just trying to soak it all in. In regards to Jane Starlet— W:	Jane Sterrett

	L:	Jane Sterrett, sorry, and the Gainesville Women for Equal Rights, how was your relationship different than the typical Black-White relationship at that time?

	W:	Because I was one of the peoples who they reached out to, to join the Gainesville Women for Equal Rights. Barbara Higgins—who’s dead now—she and myself. And they was very good at helping us get programs, and backing us like, with the Boys Club, with the United Way board, anything what we tried to do. At that time, when that organization was first formed, because Barbara Higgins





and myself was not teachers, we was asked to sit in on the board first. Some of the Black teachers back in that time got very upset because, as they say, they came to us—you know, at that time, Black teachers was the hot thing in the community—and not asked them. They felt like that they should have been asked instead of us. So, we had to fight that battle when we would have meetings. I didn’t drive, I decided to drive about, oh, eight or nine years ago. But I didn’t drive at that time, and I was in it before Barbara Higgins was. So when they did start to—well no, Barbara Higgins and I, we was probably about, I was in it about two months before she was. But the Whites had to pick me up. Barbara and I lived a good distance apart, so it would have been out of her way to come by and pick me up. Joan used to come by, because she didn’t live not too far from me, crossed 13th Street and picked me up, when some of the Black teachers had almost passed right by my house.

	L:	That’s—very unusual!



	W:	But no, it was—back in those days, if you was a Black teacher or something, you didn’t mess with anyone who was on a Black, you know, youth.

	L:	Wouldn’t you think that you would want to band together?



	W:	I didn’t care about that, whether we band together or not, because I knew what it was. It was not—they mind, and I’m not talking about them, but their mind was on a different page from my mind. Because I cared about peoples. I’ve always cared. I came up so poor. And if it had not been for peoples in the community helping us, I don’t know where I would have been at this time. Because I could have ended up doing everything. But I came up really poor, so I understand





peoples. Well, some peoples, if you have made it, and went through college and didn’t have to go through that—and then, some peoples, if they have went through that, and then you made it and went through college, you don’t want to look back on that. So that’s the issue.

	L:	Don’t you think it’s important for the history and the future of the Black community to remember where you came from in the good, bad, and the ugly, and try to build off of that?

	W:	Yeah. Yeah, it’s important. But you would never get peoples to see that. You can go out there right now and interview a lots of peoples, and they could not tell you what actually happened down in their community with the Black kids. You can interview some of them Black—do you have Black teachers at Rawlings?

	L:	Mmhm.



	W:	Well just ask them sometime about the Blue Center down there on 8th Avenue, or 5th Avenue or, just ask them sometime to talk about some of those places.

	L:	My kids do.



	W:	Mmhm.



L:  I think it is very important. I’m close with all my kids, but my little boys, I have six boys that are pretty at-risk, and I took them under my wing. But I agree, it is very important to raise strong children—

W:   Mmhm.



L:  And know that you don’t need to be like this—you know, grow up. W:  Yeah.





	L:	During the 1983 interview, when asked if you had seen a change with race relations, you talked about the integration and its positives, as well about the negatives and how you don’t know where people stand. From that interview until now, how have things changed? Have they gotten better? Have they gotten worse? Stayed the same?

	W:	It’s about the same. I am disappointed that we don’t have more Black churches stepping up to the plate, you know? A long time ago, when I was coming up, that was what we had, was the Black churches. And you know, we had those but we had some community people still support us also. But that was really what peoples had to lean on, you know, when they could go there, talk, and peoples would talk to you about it and everything. The churches is not into that; some of them is, but the majority, the big ones, they not into that old-fashioned work. As the old saying goes, we need to come back to basics.

	L:	Very true. How have you changed in the last twenty-five years?



	W:	I have not changed. I’ve stayed my same self. The only thing what I have changed is, I had a sit-down talk to myself, and decide what group was doing this who I was a member of, and what group was doing that. And all them who was not community, doing anything in they community, I just stopped, you know.

That’s how I have changed but my direction, my focus, have not changed.



	L:	You are very involved with the poorer community of Gainesville, because they need a voice, and they need someone—

	W:	They need peoples to work with them, and go out there and to meet with them, work with them, and support them in anything what they trying to do.





	L:	I agree. In regards to our current political climate with the past presidential election, how were you involved? I know you used to go door-to-door. [Laughter]

	W:	I was out there working really, really hard doing the same thing, and I’ll tell you: this past election, I have not seen peoples working together since the Civil Right Movement a long time ago. I mean, Black and White, old and young, Hispanic, everybody working on the same course. Now if we was to work like that in other things in the community as we did in Obama’s election, the whole town would be different. And I really enjoyed working in that campaign, because I mean, you seen a lot of peoples out there. I mean, peoples in wheelchairs out there working. So, it was really, really fun.

	L:	And what do you think about the direction our country is headed now?



	W:	I think it’s going to take Obama eight or nine years to get it straightened out, but I think he’s trying to do the best he can, you know, with peoples and all, economy is so bad. He’s trying to help this and trying to help that. I like what he’s doing with the stimulus money, you know, trying to help get peoples back; Florida Works, you know, giving them, getting them money, you know just to try help peoples and all. I don’t know just how much he will be able to do, but I like the way—now, I have not been keeping up with the Iraq and all this issue, but I been keeping up with what’s going on right here in the community—just like I was looking at the new report last night on GE—GM or GE, you know—

	L:	GM, yeah.





	W:	And I’ve been keeping up with things like that, but not, you know. What he’s doing, I think all what he can do, the only thing what I have some concerns about was when he was getting ready to close that, what—Gamanamo Bay?

	L:	Oh, Gitmo, yeah.



	W:	Where was those peoples going go at? Because I know I would not want them out in the community, just like when they sent all those peoples over here from Cuba, and Castro sent them people who had mental problems, you know. Which, that should have never happened.

	L:	No.



	W:	Mmhm.



L:  And do you think Obama is going—with the recession and everything, how has this impacted Gainesville and our community, and has it changed at all with the election of Barack? Have you seen any hope?

W:   I have not, you know—there is so many peoples around here out of jobs now.



Everywhere you look, it’s peoples out of jobs. I have not seen too much of change. Of course this money and everything have not gotten here yet to really help peoples. But I, it’s just—he only been in office a short while, but I have not seen too much of change, because when he was going in was when—when he was going in was when people was, you know, being laid off, and jobs being hard to find. Or people cut back on their hiring, or the business losing business because peoples are not eating out much. So, it’s too early for me to say about the change, because he only been there since January. And all this stuff was going happen before he even got in. So he has to deal with that. Mmhm.





	L:	Takes time. [Laughter] W:	Yeah.

	L:	Do you think that the election of a Black president has changed our country’s race relations?

	W:	No. Mm-mm.



	L:	You don’t think that it has made people—



	W:	No, no. He was elected because people loved what he was saying, what he was trying to do, and I would hope that it would have; but you still have the diehard, and I don’t see it—you know, it may happen, but I don’t see it.

	L:	As of your work with the Shands, with the hospital, and you have a scholarship in your name, when did this, when were you awarded this?

	W:	A long, long, long time ago.



	L:	And it’s for African American students going into healthcare? W:	Mmhm.

	L:	What, if I could ask, how did that come about? How did the scholarship come about, did you ever work in the healthcare field, or—?

	W:	No, but when I was appointed to the Shands Hospital Board of Directors a long time ago, I learnt a lots about healthcare. And I started to going out there volunteering in different departments, and I got very interested in the medical part, and Paul Metts, who was the CEO at that time, wanted to get more Blacks involved in the healthcare. And so, he felt—so they did this, unbeknownst to me, but they felt like if they put the scholarship in my name, because I was well-





known around here, that maybe more Blacks, as they graduate from high school, would go into healthcare.

	L:	I never even thought of that before. It’s very interesting. W:	Mmhm.

	L:	And your community center, where is that located?



	W:	I think its 521 NE 1st Street, but it’s on 1st Street. About one block if you’re on 8th Avenue, coming from—it’s right on NE 1st Street. You know where Chestnut Funeral Home is?

	L:	Mmhm.



	W:	It’s almost right in front of Chestnut Funeral Home, right there by Walker Furniture, coming off of E 1st Street. So if you make a left turn, a right turn, it’s about one block down on the right-hand side.

	L:	And you have events and things for the community, for the children? Do you do—

	W:	No, the Recreation Department run that. Yeah. So, they have a afterschool program, and when school close, they have all-day programs.

	L:	And if you could send a message to our kids today—our Black kids, our White kids—what would you say to them about the past and now?

	W:	I would say to them to stay in school and get their education, and don’t let peoples you know—how can I use the word? When someone is eager to follow somebody else—but make up their own mind with what they want to do. Don’t let anyone make no decisions for them. But education is the best thing you can do now, because you can’t get anything without a high school diploma.





	L:	And how do you think your education has impacted your life?



	W:	It impacted it a great deal, but I learned my education mostly from the community.

	L:	So you were educated in the real world? W:	Yeah. Yeah.

	L:	More than in school? W:	Mmhm. Mmhm.

	L:	And that’s incredibly important because street smarts account for—



	W:	Uh-huh, yeah. I think all the schools, the colleges and things, I think all the students, should have to go out in the community or go somewhere and learn the other side of the page.

	L:	I agree completely. I agree completely. There are so many questions I want to ask; I’m sorry. So, if we can back track a little to your childhood: your mother. Tell me more about her. What did she do in Gainesville while you were growing up?

	W:	She worked in people’s homes in the daytime, and then they took in washing and ironing. My oldest auntie—it was three of them living in a house together. My oldest auntie, she stayed home so, and took care of the kids and what was home and everything. And she would wash clothes in the daytime and hang them up, and then when my mother and my Aunt Rosa got home from their jobs, and they would iron clothes in the nighttime. So they did washing and ironing, and they worked.

	L:	So they basically worked all day, every day. W:	Mmhm.





	L:	And how did watching your aunts and your mother work so hard while you were growing up to make this life for you, even though it was a hard life—

	W:	Yeah but that taught me a really great deal. It taught me that you can make it if you want to. Because we didn’t have—sometimes, we didn’t have food in our house. We could say what we have: this today, today, today. We had to get it as we went. And they brought food home from the families’ house they worked. So, one of my uncles, you heard tell of the Thomas Center? Well at that time, it was a hotel, and he was cooking up there—one of my uncles was. So we used to go up there, and they would give us food also to bring back home. So you learn how to appreciate everything what you have. And you know Clark Butler what died here a while back?

	L:	Yes.



	W:	Okay, I spoke at his funeral also. He started out when he would come by in the area and sell vegetables. And that what he did not sell, the families who was working real hard, he would give them the vegetables. So when he put his store on 8th Avenue and peoples went up there, if you didn’t have money right then— just like you got paid off, say, on Friday—you could get stuff and it didn’t cost much then. And so we got food from him also, but that made me appreciate everything what I have.

	L:	Do you think that, even in the tiniest bit, our community helps out those in need like that? And so—

	W:	Some peoples do. More peoples is beginning to do this, especially since a lots of people is out of jobs. More peoples is beginning, just like The Gainesville





Harvest, or the Bread of the Mighty Food Bank, and more peoples, more churches, have began to get things so people can have just, like, one day a week and then you go there and pick up stuff.

	L:	Do you, are you—is your church, do they have a food bank and things of that nature?

	W:	They do. Yeah, Greater Bethel Church does. L:	Greater Baptist?

	W:	But see, we gets food from the food bank all the time for different peoples. Black on Black—but the Reichert House get food there all the time, the kids. So we do kids’ programs, and so we get food when we have the kids’ program; we get food from that. Just like we getting ready to open up in Forest Pine, Black on Black, [inaudible 33:00], and University of Florida Nursing. We have a summer program in Forest Pine, and Black on Black arranged to get the food through—the breakfast and the lunch—through the food bank. So we do, we gets food all the time. My freezer inside here, the food bank a lots of hotdogs what they was getting rid of. So, this freezer in here is full of hotdogs, and that’s because we have programs during the summer, and I wanted to get them while they had them.

	L:	Yes.



	W:	Mmhm.



	L:	I was going to ask you—this is kind of, not really on the interview, personally— are children in our schools, like Rawlings, they are on—eighty-nine percent of my student body are on Free and Reduced-Priced breakfast and lunch. During





spring break and summer and holidays, a lot of my kids don’t eat but one meal a day, if we call it a “meal.” How do you think that me as an educator, as a community member, can help? Like, what would you recommend?

	W:	You know, Village and Forest Green—I’m going list them because that’s right across from you.

	L:	Yep.



	W:	They have an advertisement in the paper, it was in there, a Guardian paper again this week, for volunteers to come out there to help with. I think she’s trying to get the summer lunch program. But they don’t have money to pay. I’m just going to use that as a example. That’s one way you can do it: you know, by volunteering, because they get from the food bank, they take food once a month. But you have to have a freezer, and you get a breakfast and a good lunch. And just in programs like that. Because you’re correct: a lots of the kids, you wouldn’t—I hate to see school close, because at times that’s the onliest meal what they have. Now, I’ll take the Reichert House: we put out our cooks on full-time during the summertime, because the kids come there in the morning, we have to give them breakfast; we have to give them lunch; and then, we have to give them something to eat before we take them home. During school time when they come there, after school, they get a snack. And when they go home, before they go home, they have a full course meal.

	L:	Really?



	W:	Mmhm.



	L:	Wow!





	W:	But, we have to, because they don’t—well, just take Saturday morning. The Reichert House had a pancake sale at Applebee’s from 7-10, and then they was going to have a Jamboree football game over there too, Lincoln Middle School. Some of the kids was there who was helping wash cars earlier, but some of them got there around nine. Now, we knew that they had not had breakfast, so we had to feed them. So, a lots of these kids, to answer your question, you can just get involved with some of these programs what is asking. And I just picked because I had seen that in the Guardian paper, Thursday. Which, she was still asking for volunteers about two hours a week. And don’t your kids, a lot of your kids, go to—

	L:	Yes, they come from Forest Green and Village Green, the five surrounding— W:	Yes, because I referred—and I can’t think of her name now but she’s a lawyer—

and she was looking for another school besides Duval for the law Bar Association to get involved with, and she told me that she did choose Rawlings.

	L:	Yay! [Laughter] I love that school. Going back to when integration and the Jim Crow Laws, when segregation became—when legal segregation ended, excuse me—you said you saw changes with the water fountains, and little things like that. Any larger changes?

W:  You know, you could go to a lunch counter during that time and order some food if you want to, or could go; but we didn’t have all that much money, and the café to eat if you wanted to—I don’t know. Have to think back on that one.

L:  Were jobs easier to get? Like, could you get a better job, instead of being an elevator operator or a maid?





	W:	I think that the jobs, when that happened—as we call it, “window dressing”? You had, some of the peoples had to hire a Black, you know, just to say “I have a Black.”

	L:	Like the Affirmative Action?



W:  Yeah, mmhm. But I think, now it’s a lots of different in it. And it is a lot, because some Blacks have really good jobs now and everything. But they had to have a education; that’s why I tell these young people and all to get that.

L:  That’s very true. What do you think about Affirmative Action? W:  I think we still need a lots of work did on it.

L:   Yes.



	W:	Even this round here in town, we still need a lots of work did on it. L:	And if you had an idea, maybe, of how—?

	W:	That is one thing what I don’t know about, I don’t know too much; all I know is we need a lots of more work to support people and jobs and things. When something happens, you know, just like I know a lot of peoples have lost their jobs, or had to resign, and I think it was just really—if they had a good Affirmative Action office that could really, really investigate it, it would have made a difference.

	L:	I agree. Do you think that a lot of race issues that come up these days, maybe aren’t appropriately explored?

	W:	I think so.



L:   That we still don’t have the community support and the higher individuals to help us with, or to help with this—

	W:	I think so.





	L:	What do you think—I’m sorry, I’m trying, you’re so interesting! You’re so humble, too! What would be your greatest life accomplishment, if you had to pick one?

	W:	To keep the kids, especially the young Black males and the young Black females, in school. Let them finish high school. Keep them off of the street corner, Keep them away from the drugs, and all the fighting and carrying on. And get the parents to be parents and not kids, and get the parents to take more responsibility of raising up their own child. My first thing would probably be to work on the parents, to get the parents in line.

	L:	How do you do that? [Laughter]



	W:	I don’t know. We have been butting up our heads with that for a long time, mmhm.

	L:	Yeah. Do you have any children of your own?



	W:	No. Unh-uh, I never wanted any, but I have twenty-eight nieces and nephews.



And I raised two of them, and I have one of my nephew’s daughters at P.K, which, I have always helped him with her, but he lost this job in December so, I’ve been kind of taking care of—?

	L:	What grade is she in? W:	She’s in the tenth grade.

	L:	Okay. Because I’m going to work there next year, so. [Laughter] W:	Yeah. Because he graduated from P.K.

[Break in recording; interruption]



	L:	I noticed, when you came in, you came in through the back door— W:	Yeah.





	L:	Is there, you know, for the purpose of this interview, with the Jim Crow and everything—

	W:	Mmhm.



	L:	Did you come in the back door because of some sort of— W:	No. I park in the back.

	L:	Okay.



	W:	The reason why I come, even when Lettie is not here, I don’t park in the front. Now, when this heat here come up in the daytime, I move my car around on the side up under the tree. But the reason how come I don’t pull up on that sidewalk where she was parked at: one day I was up there, and I was too close, and I was backing up and didn’t notice, and tore up the fender on my car, knocked it loose. So ever since then, I do not park on that.

	L:	I agree! [Laughter]



	W:	But I park in the back because in the morning time I just come on in. But now when the heat of the day, I’ll move my car right up under, you see where that golf cart was parked?

	L:	Mmhm.



	W:	Right there by that golf cart.



L:   Oh, okay, okay. And just two more questions for you: If—excuse me. Growing up in Gainesville, was the University of Florida as an integral part of this town as it is now, with everything and—?





	W:	No, the teachers who taught out there was. But I never had too much of contacts with the university when I was growing up. It was after I got up and everything I had contacts with the University of Florida.

	L:	Did you ever consider going to college?



	W:	No, I went to Santa Fe Community College, and that was all what I wanted to do. L:	You went to night school also at Lincoln.

	W:	Yes, mmhm.



	L:	And that’s when you—did you graduate high school from night school?



	W:	No, unh-uh. I graduated from, I went to night school at Lincoln when I was here also, but I graduated from Williston Vocational High School in Bronson—not Bronson, but Williston.

	L:	Williston, okay. Well, thank you so much. W:	Okay.

	L:	I have learned so much, and I appreciate it.



	W:	Okay. But Santa Fe was the one I went to night school at, because I was working full-time.

	L:	Is that when you were working as the elevator operator, or for Ms. Sterrett? W:	I was working for Ms. Sterrett during that time.

	L:	And did she encourage you to go to school? W:	Mmhm, mmhm.

	L:	What did she say? Why—?



	W:	She told me I had to go because I had to get an education. L:	She seems like a wonderful woman.





W:   She was, yes.



L:   And she’s passed away by now?



W:  Yes, she died quite awhile back, a long time back. She, they found her dead in the house. Her children did. Another friend of mine, Molly Springfield, who you know [inaudible 43:55].

L:  Do you ever keep in contact with her children? W:  Mmhm, yeah. Especially her baby son Teo.

L:   Do they live in Gainesville?



	W:	Vicky, the daughter do, and Teo do, but the oldest son Jamie, he live in Ft.



Pierce, I think.



	L:	So they might as well be your kids? W:	Yeah. Mmhm. Mmhm.

	L:	Well that is great.



	W:	Yeah.



	L:	Well, thank you so much for everything. W:	Okay. Okay.

[End of the interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, July 25, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019