AAHP 396; Giovanni; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 396 Nikki Giovanni

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Randi Gil-Sadler on January 19, 2016 35 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: Then PhD student Randi Gil-Sadler interviewed poet Nikki Giovanni on January 19, 2016. She began with word associations for Nikki Giovanni to expand upon. These words included Tennessee, poetry, Momma, Gus, Black, and Outer Space. Nikki Giovanni discusses her passion for Black youth to have opportunities to go to space as well as her friendships with other prominent Black female writers. She also reflects on her relationships with other Civil Rights giants like Rosa Parks. During the interview, she expresses her thoughts on the Donald Trump presidency and shares about her past work in poetry as well as the current project she was working on.



Keywords: [Black Poets; African American History; Black Writers; Nikki Giovanni]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 396

Interviewee: Nikki Giovanni Interviewer: Randi Gil-Sadler Date: January 19, 2016



	S:	Okay, thank you so much for doing this interview, Dr. Giovanni. And I read some of your other interviews, so I want to start off a little bit differently. I want to just start with a word association. So I’ll say a word and you tell me first thing comes to mind. All right: Tennessee.

	G:	I was born in Tennessee. I’m a Knoxvilian by birth and as we know Eastern Tennessee was the difference in the Civil War, because middle Tennessee, Nashville went with the money. And of course Memphis, Western Tennessee, went with the South and if it hadn’t been for Knoxville and that area deciding that they were gonna stay with the Union, we would have had a different outcome for the Civil War.

	S:	All right. Next word: poetry.



G:  I write poetry and I enjoy it, and I encourage other people to do it. I try to teach, not poetry, but strength in your own voice. I try to teach my students that what’s important is what you know and how you express it.

S:   Momma.



	G:	I have one. [Laughter] My mother passed ten years ago now. I am one. My son is forty-six and I am a grandmother, so I’ve gone through the whole—.

S:   All right, Gus.



	G:	Gus was my father and he too has passed. He’s been, I suppose now, it’s seventeen years. I can’t pull the math up but Gus was—my mother married him and he was my father, or he is my father; still is.

	S:	Grandmother.





	G:	Emma Lou Venia. Had a friend that recently was asking me about that. Emma Lou is my grandmother, and my great-grandmother was Cornelia, and Cornelia Watson was the mother of my grandfather John Brown Watson, who was obviously named John Brown for the revolutionary. And John Brown married Emma Lou and they had three daughters: Yolande Cornelia and Anne-Elizabeth and Agnes Margery, and Agnes is ninety-four years old.

S:   Wow!



G:  She’s still with us—actually she’s coming to visit me in two weeks and I have to make some chitlins, I brought the chitlins, I’m going have to clean them and put them on.

S:   Okay. All right, Muhammad Ali.



	G:	Muhammad was a friend. I haven’t seen him lately. Both of us are getting old. Ali is maybe two years older than I am, but when the government stripped him of his title—he of course did poetry and Richard Fulton, who did some speaking handling for Ali, asked me, because a lot of people were afraid of getting associated with Ali who was good looking, sweet guy, and he asked me would I do it. Would I read poetry with him, would I travel with him, and I said “Yes.” But you know, Ali was a womanizer and his wife was very nervous, but she knew me and she said “Well I don’t mind if it’s Nikki.” But she didn’t know, and I don’t mind saying that now, is that I never was on the bus. He was on the bus and he would travel to Columbus. He did the bus. I always flew, because I was busy. And so, whoever was on the bus with him was what was going on.

S:   You didn’t know. [Laughter]





	G:	Had nothing to do with me. I laughed about that. If I could see him now we would laugh about that.

	S:	Beautiful. Jazz.



	G:	I love jazz. My mother was a jazz fan and a good singer, and my sister could play the piano. I don’t have any talents like that, but I love jazz and coming down here, I don’t have it on now, but I put my ears on every time I’m flying. I put my ears on and I listen—I have what are those things?

	S:	IPod?



	G:	Ipod, and I just listen all the way, fall asleep and wake back up. S:	Okay, Black.

	G:	I am and it’s a term—it’d be very seldom that you would hear me use the term African-American. The term that I traditionally use is of course “Black Americans,” because we are Americans, and we are Black, and we are the people, and I will speak about that this evening. Black Americans are the people who had to create themselves. So when we came to America, we had to make a decision: “Are we going to be Americans or not?” We are and of course colors gonna come in. If we look at our fellow Americans, we look at German Americans and British Americans. Now we look at Caribbean Americans, and now actually we’re looking at Africans who have become here but we didn’t have any place to go back to. When we were brought here, in slavery, but nonetheless when we were brought here we knew that we had no place to go so whatever we were gonna be we had to create ourselves here.

	S:	Okay. Two more: Middle Passage.





	G:	Middle Passage is the most incredible, incredible historical situation as you know and that is something that I talk about a lot because the fact that we could come from enslavement to what was going to be, as it was at that point, America and come with a sanity, learn a language, create a food, create a music, create a people. Where would we be without Black Americans, it’s incredible, and middle passage is what I’ve been working with NASA. And I’m so excited about that because I really really want NASA to send more Black people into space, and I want Black youngsters, not just—and I like scientists it’s not that, but we need the creative people to go into space and we need to put the energy into getting the kids just to go up to the space station and come back. They’re in good shape; go up and come back and see what it is that they see. I was disappointed, for example, in The Martian because I thought of all the things for a movie, and I think that they should remake it. What we need on Mars is a Black woman, and I was laughing yesterday; “We need a Black woman with some grits.” Or maybe a yam. But we need a Black woman because to have a White man up there who’s gonna grow potatoes is illogical.

	S:	See, that was my last word association: outer space.



	G:	I’m a big fan and I think that it’s so important that we get youngsters. We really have to get the inner city youngsters and, if I may, the Appalachian youngsters involved—the Appalachian Whites are involved. If you look at who were our first astronauts, they’re all Appalachians, but we need to get our Black kids involved so that we can begin to envision space as where we are and how we create ourselves, and how we get along with—. So we know that we need Black women





to be a part of space because they get along with and find a way to love everything, because we found a way to love people here in America.

	S:	That’s so good. I wanna go back a little bit because I’m a PhD. Student in the English department here and so the first time I really intensely read your work was in a graduate seminar on Black woman writers and I want to talk to you a little bit about the Black Woman in Anthology Project that came out in the ‘70s which you contributed three pieces to. How did you get involved in that particular anthology?

	G:	Is that the one with Toni Kane? S:	Yes.

	G:	Okay because knew Toni and she lived in the village, I lived uptown. I lived on 94th street. Everybody knew everybody because there were few enough of us and she invited me to be a part of it which I was really glad and Toni I think was teaching, if I’m not mistaken, at that time in Rutgers but Toni didn’t drive. Right now I couldn’t tell you if she didn’t know how to drive or I really don’t know what, but I had a Volkswagen, so I would go and pick her up and take her down. So I started teaching the class because I was going down there and she was working on that, and I got involved that way, and just one thing leads to another.

	S:	Okay. In that particular anthology, you wrote a poem called “Woman Poem” and you have a line where you say about Black women, you’re either a sexual object and you say “And no sex if you’re fat; Black women get back, be a mother, grandmother, something strong, something, but not a woman.” What inspired that particular line and that particular perspective?





	G:	That’s just history. You start to look at the image of Black women, and she was a friend of mine, Lina Horne, and of course Lina is gonna be a beautiful woman; everybody’s gonna deal with that. But if you looked a Hattie McDaniel, she was gonna be—Hattie McDaniel, if I’m not mistaken, won the first Oscar. And she was gonna be an object, but she wasn’t gonna be a full human being. Nobody can see Hattie McDaniel falling in love. They saw her as “Mammy,” and I was responding to those images of us.

	S:	Okay. One of my favorite pieces that you wrote from that anthology was the “I Fell off the Roof One Day”. Why do you laugh?

	G:	Because I remember that, sorta.



	S:	You remember that sorta? You had a lot of interesting lines in there, but you were really talking about this kind of descent to another university. Right and the Black University already exists. You know any space that Black people come together and teach and learn, do you see any of that being manifest today?

	G:	I don’t know if I can really answer that. S:	Okay.

	G:	I’d have to go back and study my own— S:	Okay.

	G:	My own writing to do that. What I liked about my writing though, you didn’t ask me that, but what I liked about it is that whatever I’m writing, I’m writing it today and I’m not writing it for tomorrow, I’m not writing for next year, I’m not writing it because I wanna win a prize and I try to say that to my students too. I’m writing it





because this is the way I feel as I’m trying to deal with the history with what I know, and I’m trying to get it down, and I do. I have a sense of humor so you—

	S:	Yes you do, you do. You have quite a bit of humor. G:	You got a lot of that. Yup. Yup, I do.

	S:	And I ask you that because I’ve seen other places where you’ve called yourself a “Futurist.” When you’ve talked about space and looking forward. So I wanted to ask you that. You also talked a lot about, in other interviews, your mother. You said that, “We get poetry through our mothers.” Now what is a way that your mom or your grandmother or other female members have inspired the word?

	G:	I think you pay attention to them. You see what they’re doing. And I’ve been very lucky because I learned to cook with my grandmother, but I cook with mommy, and I made beans the other day because it’s cold. And I just had this thing, I just wanted some northern beans and some jowl bacon, and it was so good. And I said to a friend, “But it wasn’t my mother’s beans.” And I cannot make my mother’s beans, because I don’t smoke and I think that a part of what she did, she would—so there must have been something about smoking. There was something that she did, but I cooked with a lot of my friends, including Maya. And Maya and I used to love—because Maya thought she was, well, Maya was a good cook. I was gonna say she thought she was a good cook, but she was a good cook. But I thought I made better lamb. I made a rack of lamb. I thought my lamb was better and Maya thought hers was better, and we had this argument.

And I used to cook with Edna Lewis, who was also a great chef, so, knowing those people and watching how they do things, you’re watching poetry. And I





mean, I enjoy it. I was just very lucky to know the people that I know and had a lot to do with my age and had a lot to do with the fact that when you meet people and you like them, you continue relationships.

	S:	Yes you do. I want to go back to what you said about sending Black women into space because I’ve seen other places where you said that you felt like that you are the “excellent representation.”

	G:	I would’ve been.



	S:	What makes Nikki Giovanni the “representative from Earth” to the extraterrestrials out there in the world?

	G:	Well first of all, I don’t want anything. And I think that’s incredibly important because Earth and especially right now, you look at the fools that we have. You look at Donald Trump and the fools.

	S:	The fools.



	G:	And they want things, but I don’t want anything. I’m interested in people so. If I’m on Mars, I’m gonna find out who are you, and what do you do, and “Let’s take some grits.” “I have grits on Earth; well, do you?” I mean I think that I get along with people. The reason that I can’t go into space, and I’ve said that to some high school students I was talking to recently, is that I grew up in a generation that smoked. We are the generation of segregation, but we also smoked and I had a lung cancer, and my left lung was removed. And I’m fortunate to be alive but I cannot—Dr. Bowland—I can’t go into space. And I had lunch with him and he said “[inaudible at 13:28] we can send you into space, but we can’t bring you back.” And they can’t bring me back because coming back into gravity, your





organs move around, and if my stomach, for example, would move, or my liver would move, it would kill me. So I said, “Let’s make a deal because I’m seventy- two years old. I’m not gonna live forever.” People in my mother’s family live probably into their nineties or so. I have—Agnes is ninety-four. I said “When I get into my late eighties, why don’t you let me go into space?” Because I’m not gonna live much longer anyway, and when I die, you just open the hatch and just let me out. And then the kids can look on Earth and say “ Oh there goes Nikki.”

	S:	[Laughter] Nikki Giovanni! G:	There goes Nikki.

	S:	And I’ve heard you talk about this in other interviews and articles, right? You don’t have a fear of death. That’s not something that scares you, which is interesting because of the friends that you’ve had, the friends that you lost. What, in you, gives you that fearlessness about death?

	G:	It’s not a fearlessness, it’s that you know that that which is born, is going to die.



That’s what’s gonna happen. I would rather not be shot. I would rather not be beaten to death. I don’t want to be misunderstood here, but we know that at some point, this comes to an end. And since we don’t know when it comes to an end, what we have to do is be the best person we can be while we are here, and a part of that is loving people. A part of that is giving people, a part of that is calling fools like Donald Trump a “fool” because he is a fascist and somebody that needs to be defeated—

	S:	Absolutely!





G:  Just absolutely. So, you do today’s job today, and whichever side of the dirt you wake up on tomorrow, if you wake up on this side of the dirt, you do this dirt and you do this job. If you wake up on the other side, then you begin to find out what it is. It’ll just be another adventure.

	S:	Okay. So you talked about fools a couple times, and you brought up Donald Trump, so—

	G:	I have to. [Laughter] It worries me because I used to, when I was a history major at Fisk, and Theodore Curry was my professor, and I never did understand how an Austrian, Hitler, with a stupid-looking mustache, could convince Germans to kill Jews who they knew. And millions of people killed millions of people. I could do the history on it, but I could never understand it. And I have watched Donald Trump, who is a billionaire, with a stupid—funny looking, and I see people who are poor as Job church mass. People don’t have teeth, and their hair, and they’re standing there saying, “Donald Trump speaks for me.” I had an insight into how fascism happens, because these people would follow him and do what he wants to do. And they would kill you and me, whom they know. Who actually, if they think about it, we have more in common, because we all need health care, we all need a minimum wage raise.

	S:	Absolutely.



	G:	A billionaire is not gonna do that. S:	No, not at all.





	G:	But they’re gonna follow him. And so I had an insight into fascism, and I mentioned Trump because one: I think he’s dangerous. Everybody try to act like “Oh he’s funny.” It’s nothing funny about it.

	S:	Not at all.



	G:	He’s a dangerous man, and the people who follow him are dangerous people. These are the people that used to lynch us in Mississippi. These are the people that shot down King and Malcolm.

	S:	Absolutely.



	G:	These are the people that arrested Rap Brown, and I must say I’m very, very disappointed in our president, but Barack Obama has not given the presidential pardon to Rap. Because he knows very well that Rap didn’t do anything, he shouldn’t be in prison, and it’s my understanding that Rap is ill now and should be out. It’s things like that that worry you, and I have to mention it because maybe two people listen to me. Nobody listens to poets, but for the two that do, I just wanna say Trump is a fool and needs to be defeated.

	S:	Definitely and you talked about having that insight into fascism, but what do you think it is in people who completely look past that class and say, “This is a person that speaks to me.” What do you think is making it resonate with that?

	G:	I really wish I knew. I think that some poor people; Black and White, but no Black people—well not “no” because I’ve seen a couple of people—four White people think it’s more important to be White than it is to recognize that they’re poor. It’s the same people that fought. For example, we’re here in Gainesville. It’s the same people that fought for their Confederacy.





	S:	Absolutely.



	G:	They had nothing to gain by the freedom of the slaves but these are the same people that say things like “I don’t wanna see the Muslims coming here. I don’t wanna see the Hispanics.” And Trump is really too funny. Trump is saying we’re gonna build a wall to keep the Mexicans out. That’s not what you have to do because the figures say, “You have to build a wall to keep the Mexicans in.” Most of them are leaving, they’re not gonna move around, because they can’t get anything done here. And you look at what what’s built this nation, and I don’t know where he gets the “again” from.

	S:	Right, “Great again.”



	G:	No we’re not great yet, and what we need to do is be working together to see if we can come to a greatness, but I just think that it has to be responded to. I don’t understand.

	S:	You said, “No one listens to poets,” when people listen to you— G:	No, no.

	S:	Yes! They do, they do. Even though you sometimes let it be known that you’re not a guru, you don’t have the answers to these questions, but I want to know, what inspires you now? What’s happening in the world that gets Nikki Giovanni’s attention?

	G:	First of all, I like this younger generation, and they are the post-segregation generation. So how they’re responding to freedom has been interesting to me, because there was a time right here at University that we, as Black Americans would have been delighted—we fought to be able to attend the University and





now the kids are upset because some of the White kids are mistreating them. And I think that one of the things that this generation has to learn is that when we say “White,” we don’t mean “each and every”. You have to distinguish between those fools and those good people, and it’s very important because it’s easier to lose track. And you have to recognize that there’re some of everything you don’t like. There’s always somebody you don’t like, and we have to find our friends and we have to distinguish between that and the people that would be enemies, would be negative about us.

	S:	What are your thoughts on the “Black Lives Matter” movement?



	G:	I think it’s wonderful. I was just in Chicago and when I heard about it, the first thing I did—I don’t do the Internet and I don’t.

	S:	[Laughter] Nikki, we gotta you on Twitter!



	G:	No, none of that. [Laughter] It makes you crazy but none of it, none of it. But, I was laughing with Faye Williams, and I have people, and I’m very fortunate I have people, so I said to my people, “I want a Black Lives Matter t-shirt.” And so they got on there and they got me one. I think that this is an important movement, and I think that what they were doing in Chicago, I think that what they were doing in San Francisco, I think that bringing the attention that—you just can’t keep shooting our youngsters down like this and we’re not gonna do anything about it. I think it’s very important and I think it’s very good. I don’t know how this is gonna come up against, “Let’s boycott the Oscars”; I’m not seeing that this is the same level of importance, but I can learn. Well the Oscars are just a little statue, and I think to say that we want more Blacks in the Academy makes sense





because we want more Blacks to do a lot of things, but, Black Lives Matter is a grassroots movement and I think what they’re doing is wonderful.

	S:	Good, good and you talked a lot about—you mentioned in another interview about how we celebrate Martin Luther King Day. You’ve been a big proponent of Rosa Parks Day and why we need to celebrate her, so can you talk about that investment in her, what she represents? Because I know she was a friend to you also.

	G:	She was a friend. Rosa was a friend. It’s not that I want to take Martin—I was just saying “Let’s not forget,” and we know we are going to have a woman on the twenty dollar bill. And so I’ve been a big fan and nobody listens to me, but I would love to have Rosa Parks on the twenty dollar bill. I just think it would make me work hard to get twenty dollars.

	S:	It would! [Laughter] Can you tell us more about her personality and the time you spent with her? I think so much about her is relegated to that day on the bus, when in the last couple years you know she had a very robust life in activism in the communities. So what was your relationship with her?

	G:	You have to remember that Mrs. Parks lived next door to A D. Nixon, who was the head—and she also was in the NAACP, and we have to recall that there was a rape in Alabama that she was sent up to investigate. Mrs. Parks was always involved, and so when people say she was just a tired old lady, they just don’t know what they were talking about. I happen to have just been privileged to have known Ms. Parks, and she’s wonderful. Nothing ever fazed her. She was always





very calm no matter what was going on. She was not ever going to get upset about anything. I wish I was more like that you know, just very, very much—

	S:	You get upset?



	G:	Into—. [Laughter] I’m afraid I do, but she was just well within herself and of course, mentally she was always very strong. She always knew what she wanted to do. Probably one of the smartest things that she did, and Raymond did, was to finally leave Montgomery. Because somebody would have killed her. And I thought it was really a good idea to move on, and John Connors was right to make sure to hire them to make sure that they could earn a living. And of course, we wouldn’t have Martin without Mrs. Parks. You know, absolutely and I think one of the people overlooked and again this is just history, is A. D. Nixon. You know, Mr. Nixon was a strong great man, and of course Martin used to say, “Well, he doesn’t speak well.” Which he probably didn’t. I mean, very few people spoke as well as Martin. But A. D knew what he wanted done and he was a good leader of the NAACP.

	S:	Okay. I know you’re a big fan of this generation and the hip-hip generation so I wanna know are there any particular artists that you listen to; hip-hop artists now? I know you were a big fan of Tupac.

	G:	I have a “Thug Life” tattoo. S:	You the OG! [Laughter]

	G:	That’s right! But no, I’m actually a jazz fan. S:	Okay.

	G:	And I don’t think I’m twenty years old anymore.





	S:	Okay.



	G:	I’m not trying to deal with any of that. I’m a big Serena Williams fan because I’ve been a tennis fan. My mother played tennis—

	S:	Yes! Yes, yes.



	G:	And Serena was dating— S:	Drake?

	G:	Drake, yeah.



	S:	You were fond of that?



	G:	It had nothing on me. Nothing to do with me, but I have a box. My attorney and I have a box at tennis in Cincinnati.

	S:	Okay.



	G:	And Serena’s box is across, so we can look there and see Drake, and I was like, “Oh there’s Drake.” And I keep up with it. No, I wish the kids well. I was just incredibly sad because Venus lost yesterday at the Australian Open, and I’m a real Venus fan because she has conducted her life so beautifully. Just so beautifully and I’m sorry she lost. I would go see Venus anyplace. I hope she comes to Cincinnati. She usually does, and she’s had an illness, and we all have, she’s a lot younger than I am but, we all have these things. And I was just sorry that she lost, but if I ever get any money, which is not likely, I was left and I’m going tell the group too, I played the lottery which I never do.

	S:	Did you?



	G:	It’s a billion and a half. Why wouldn’t you? S:	Why wouldn’t you right?





	G:	And I was very sorry to wake up the next morning and find out I didn’t win it because a friend of mine said, “What are you gonna do if you win the lottery?” I said, “Well the first thing I’m gonna do and that’s the truth—” I know other people say they’re gonna do good things for other people, first thing I was gonna do was go to Australia and I was gonna watch the Australian Open. Because I’ve always wanted to see that Australian Open, and it’ll take something like the lottery for me to do that. But maybe if I start putting a hundred dollars down, I’ll work on it and in a couple years I’ll be able to do that.

	S:	I get you. One thing that I’m noticing just from the brief time talking to you is just your admiration of Black women across the board, and I wanna know: there’s a little phrase going around now, social media phrase, to describe Black women called “Black Girl Magic.”

	G:	Called what?



	S:	Black Girl Magic. So when Black women are doing good things or when Black women are excelling, you say it’s “Black Girl Magic.” What do you think about the phrase?

	G:	Oh, I like that.



	S:	You like that?



	G:	Sure. Because when you ask about Middle Passage, but the one thing again that when we look at Middle Passage, we know that these people didn’t speak the same language because they were from different—and we know as they’re coming across they had to find a way to talk and it had to be a Black woman that just started a song. It was a song and it had to be a Black woman that’s gonna





bring that song to give us the way to talk. I’m a big fan of Black women I mean how could you not be?

	S:	I ask myself that everyday. G:	How could you not be?

	S:	You had a line in one of your poems when you said, “I really hope that no White person ever had cause to write about me, because they never understand that Black love is Black growth. And they’ll probably talk about my hard childhood and never understand that and all the while I was quite happy.”

	G:	That’s called “Nikki Rosa,” that’s the first poem that I wrote that got any kind of attention. I was saying, I wouldn’t have thought that when I wrote it but I was pleased I did that. Because you’re the one that has to define your life, that’s what I’m saying. You really do—you can look at what’s going on, but you can’t let other people say who you are or what it means to you.

	S:	And so how do you feel like we can continue, and I know you don’t like these kind of questions, but how did you feel like we can continue to cultivate that Black love? Because I think sometimes it’s difficult, right, in a world where Black people are being killed so [inaudible 28:57], to keep cultivating it—

	G:	You know a part of this though, really—and again, I’d have to do numbers and I’m not prepared to do that—but Black people were being killed a lot in the [19]20s. Black people were being killed in slavery, and we’re upset more now because we have the Internet that shows us, “So Freddie Grey got killed.” Everybody knows that. Sandra Bland got killed, everybody knows that. We have





people hanging from trees. We have people the cops shot down, we had people being beat to death. And so it’s not an unusual and what—and I don’t mean—

	S:	No, I get you.



	G:	Unusual, and what we cannot do is it let, again, we cannot let people who dislike us define who we are and how we respond to things. Which is why again I am incredibly proud of, though I had nothing to do with it, “Black Lives Matter.” Because the women put that together, and they said “We’re gonna make a statement.” But it’s something that, I’m a member of Delta Sigma Theta, and the Deltas marched during the era of segregation. We marched with the women for the right for women to vote. And you keep seeing that people have made these statements and that we have defined who we are, and how we embrace who we are. So finding Black love as Black wealth is just a question of not looking at too much TV, or being careful about looking at your Facebook or something, because they tell you that you’re nothing. And it’s one of the reasons that I don’t do any of that stuff, because we you get it you start to argue, “How many likes do I have?” “Oh, I only have twenty likes on whatever,” and it’ll make you crazy. And what you have to do is make a decision, “This is my life, and this is how I feel about it.”

	S:	So, what’s next for Nikki Giovanni? What’s the next project? What’s the next poem? What’s coming next for you?

	G:	Well I’m hoping my next project is—I am having lunch in a month with Dr.



Bowman again, and I want NASA to send some kids into Antarctica. I think that’s very important and I’ve been to Antarctica, but I’m not asking for myself, but I





want them to go so that they can be prepared to go into space and my latest work, which won’t be out until probably October with the rate I’m going: it’s called “A Good Cry.” And it’s because it took all of these years, but I don’t cry easily.

And one of the things that I finally realized is that women don’t cry easily. Things happen and we say, “Oh, I need to get it done. I need to get it done.” So my mother died on June 24th, and my sister died on August 10th, and my aunt died on the 29th of October. And so I had to bury people, so I didn’t get to do what I’m doing now. I didn’t get to cry. And that’s because of my dog died on the 10th of December, by the way. And I think that I want to explore what it means to learn to cry and to let ourselves cry, because the minute that you cry, everybody, “Oh, don’t cry. It’ll be all right.”

	S:	Right, right, right.



	G:	But somebody needs to say, “Yeah.” S:	It’s okay.

	G:	It all makes sense. Yeah, it makes sense. If you don’t cry when you’re sad, we do sometimes—tears run up when we’re happy because we’re laughing, but if you don’t cry when you’re grieving, when do you cry? So I’m exploring that.

	S:	Do you feel like Black women especially have been told not to cry or have a special difficulty to cry?

	G:	I didn’t do race or religion on that. S:	Okay.

	G:	As I looked at women, I think that women hold a lot in. And despite what Hollywood says, I think that we don’t let our emotion out. We go on and do what





has to be done, and I think that we need to learn to—crying is a skill and we need to learn it.

	S:	I want to ask you a little bit about your relationship with Toni Morrison.



	G:	Toni is a friend. She’s always been a friend and I met Toni when I read “The Bluer Side” I said I lived on 94th street, she was working at Random House which is all the way downtown, and I didn’t have a car then and I never did—I don’t think I’ve ever been on New York’s subway. I just don’t ever remember it the subway, but when I read the books like “Oh, I’m gonna meet this woman.”

	S:	What was it about the “Bluest Eye” that—?



	G:	Oh it was an incredible book. Just an incredible book and I walked all the way down which is like fifty blocks and went to Random House. I didn’t know if Toni knew who I was or anything like that and you know they had the guards and stuff and I said “Nikki Giovanni, I wanna see Toni Morrison.” And so she came down. I said “I just had to tell you that’s the most brilliant book.” And I wasn’t drinking then. I drink wine now.

	S:	Okay.



	G:	And we went and had a cup of coffee. We’ve been friends ever since. Toni is a good friend.

	S:	I know that in your interview with Tyler Smiley, you always chuckling when she had that quote that “Whatever it is you say about Negros, they never bored me.”

	G:	[Laughter]



	S:	See! [Inaudible 34:03] again.





	G:	Yeah but she’s a friend so there’s not anything else that I—we don’t cook together. Tyler’s not a cooker. I’m sure she does but we don’t cook together, but she does like, and I’ve been looking for it because I want to go up and see her for another reason, that she likes porgies.

	S:	Okay.



	G:	And I know that I can get porgies in Cincinnati, but I can’t drive right now. And there’s a place in Cincinnati where the fish are actually swimming, and so you can go—you know something dies so something can live, which is what Toni says all the time. So I’m gonna go get some porgies, and I’m gonna go up and fry them for her.

	S:	Okay, okay. Well, that’s all the questions that I have. This was a beautiful interview.

	G:	Thank you.



	S:	Thank you so much—



	G:	Oh thank, you. My pleasure. S:	For doing this. All right. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, April 12, 2016 Audit-edited by:	Michael T. Barry Jr., April 10, 2017

	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 23, 2020