AAHP 388B;; Saunders, Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 388B Larry Saunders

Interviewed by Nicole Williams on November 25, 2017 40 minutes | 18 pages



Abstract: In this interview Larry sanders talks about his life growing up in Gainesville, Florida. He was born in St. Augustine and has lived in Gainesville all his life. He has been a member of the Mt. Pleasant United Methodist Church for sixty- eight years. He talks about his memories of going to church as a child to an adult. He also discusses how his church was instrumental in the civil right movement and a staple for his community. The interview also follows up with how the neighborhood has changed.



Keywords: [African American History; Gainesville, Florida; Mount Pleasant United Methodist Church; Black pastors;]



Standards:

	SS.912.A.7.5 Social activism

	SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws



AAHP 388B

Interviewee: Larry Saunders Interviewer: Nicole Williams Date: November 25, 2017



	W:	This is Nicole Williams, it is November 25, 2017, and I’m sitting here with Larry Saunders in Chestnut Funeral Home. Thank you for joining me today, could you please state your full name?

	S:	Larry M. Saunders.



	W:	When and where were you born?



	S:	August 3rd, 1949. I was born in St. Augustine Florida, but I’ve been a resident of Gainesville all of my life.

	W:	And are you a member of the Mount Pleasant United Methodist church? S:	Yes I am.

	W:	How long have you been a member? S:	Sixty-­eight years.

	W:	Wow, okay. Are any other of your family members-­-­? S:	I am a fourth generation.

	W:	Who was the pastor when you were younger?



	S:	When I was born the pastor of the church was Reverend Daniel McClain. The first pastor that I remember was Reverend S. Marion who followed Reverend McClain.





	W:	And before that, like with your parents, do you know who the pastor was when they were-­-­?

	S:	There is a listing, yes, of all of the pastors of the church.



	W:	So, I guess just starting when you were younger, do you have any specific memories from going to Sunday school?

	S:	Yes, when I was a youngster there was a church bus that would come by and pick us up for Sunday school and take us to Sunday school. We would remain there until our parents got there and attended morning service, following morning service there was an afternoon program called Methodist Youth Fellowship at 4 o’clock in the afternoon and we would go back to that. Very rarely did my parents attend the evening service.

	W:	To my understanding, there was also schooling when it comes to education in general, not just religious teaching, but academic teaching too. Did you go to any of those things?

	S:	That came much later, it didn’t come during my time as a youngster at Mount Pleasant. A number of the teachers within the area were members of Mount Pleasant and they participated in helping out the young people with Christmas, Easter, what have you, projects, speeches, and what have you. They would be more than willing to help you on a tutorial basis, but there wasn’t a tutorial program at that time. That came much later.

	W:	During that time, what would you say the church meant to the community?





	S:	The church was part of the livelihood of the community. There were several churches in the neighborhood, Mount Pleasant, Friendship Baptist Church, Mount Caramel Baptist Church, Zion Temple AME Z Church, Greater Bethel AME Church. All of those churches were in the area and most of the people attended one of those churches. Mount Pleasant had been a leader in the forefront of the community for a number of years.

	W:	For instance, I know that Mount Caramel was very influential during the Civil Rights Movement.

	S:	Yes, the pastor of Mount Caramel was the president of the NAACP, Reverend Thomas A. Wright. However, the youth movement started out of Mount Pleasant United Methodist Church and Reverend William M. Ferguson was pastor of the church at that time. And Charles Chestnut III was elected as the youth council president. There were several members of Mount Pleasant who were instrumental in the first restaurant sit-­in.

	W:	Can you tell me a little about that?



	S:	[Inaudible 5:07] Player, Chester Player, Vernon Hayes, were all members of Mount Pleasant and they were part of that first sit-­in that was at Woolworth.

	W:	So, what were they protesting?



	S:	At that time, they did not serve any Blacks, so, as it was referred to then we were considered colored, there were no coloreds that were served. They went in and were seated at the lunch counter to be served, and they were ignored, and then





finally one of the restaurant managers came up and said “I’m sorry, but we don’t serve color.”

	W:	Okay, and so how did the demonstration happen from there?



	S:	From there they went next door to another one and they were served there, and that was when the demonstration began. We had a combination of lunch counters, movie theaters, what have you.

	W:	Do you know if [inaudible 6:30] was ever integrated from them? S:	Yes, shortly thereafter it was.

	W:	Can you think of any of instances where Mount Pleasant was instrumental in making change in the community?

	S:	When I was a youngster, Reverend S. Marion Weeks was instrumental in bringing dental care to the students in this area. At A. Quinn Jones they were providing dental care for the White students, and he approached the schoolboard in reference to making sure that Black students got it as well.

	W:	I know that in this community it’s a majority Black community, but can you think of any other racial tensions that happened, sort of, around the community that Mount Pleasant or the Reverends or any of the community members were kind of instrumental in?

	S:	According to the church history, when Mount Pleasant was originally formulated, it was one of the places that voting rights began.





W:  So now, what do you think the church means to the community that would be different from when you were younger?

S:  I would say probably about the same. Our minister now is a female, this is the first female minister for the church. And she is very involved in the church and the community and is a in this community for equal rights.

W:   So what kind of changes do you think she, specifically, has made?



	S:	We recently had a piece of property that we purchased across the street from the church and it had been a dilapidated, old house that had been vacant for years. The back portion of it had fallen down. We acquired the property and wanted to tear it down and we were met by forces from the Pleasant Street historical board and Reverend McClain was in the forefront fighting to get that torn down so that we could improve the property and do something else for the Pleasant Street community. Subsequently, there was a building that was erected there called the House of Shalom. It’s used for our food ministry.

	W:	Can you tell me a little about the food ministry?



	S:	Food ministry, we give away food on every Thursday to people in the community, as well as those that are not in the community. And that’s been going on now for a good ten, twelve years I’ll bet.

	W:	As far as I know, you do homeless ministries?





	S:	We do a homeless ministry once the temperature drops. We open our doors of the church. There’s also a ministry for those who are addicted, they are there every day at noon for our program.

	W:	Can you think of any specific stories from people who have either done the homeless ministry or the narcotics anonymous, that maybe the church was significant in transforming their lives or helping them? Anything in particular?

	S:	Not off hand I can’t.



	W:	Well, I guess, just in general has the church-­



	S:	From what I understand, both of those ministries have been productive. Mrs.



Shirley Shay Peoples is in the forefront of our homeless ministry, and Mrs. Josephine Redick shares our food ministry.

	W:	Did they start it or was it started before them?



	S:	Mrs. Redick started the food ministry, and Mrs. Peoples-­I don’t know if she started it-­but I know she has chaired it for some time. They also do a hot meal for those who are there for the homeless ministry.

	W:	I know that recently you had your 150th anniversary, and so what was that experience like, that celebration?

	S:	It was a very, very nice affair. We had several events leading up to the grand finale at the church. We had a banquet at the Gateway Best Western, we had a gospel extravaganza there at the church, and then the day of the climax the service was done with music and the history of the church instead of the





traditional message from the minister. They gave the church history and they intermixed it with songs accordingly and it turned out very, very nicely. We had representatives from a number of our older families whose parents were pioneers at Mount Pleasant and you still have those families serving in Mount Pleasant.

	W:	With each of those different events, there were several generations of people that went?

	S:	Yes.



	W:	I know there are a lot of people who grew up in the church and a lot of people whose families either work in the church or things like that, when did you become involved in the church not just as a member, but as someone who-­

	S:	As a child from Sunday school right on through MYF and all of the other programs that we had there. I’ve been involved in it. My mother was a member there, her mother and my great grandparents were members there at Mount Pleasant.

	W:	And as far as the Mount Pleasant Cemetery, do you know anybody who was buried there or do you know of some of the people-­I know there are several famous, like the first Black surgeon-­

	S:	Yes, the cemetery was established in 1867. It was purchased for one hundred twenty-­five dollars. In fact, my great grandmother is buried there, Julia McCullum Stewart, and she was buried there in 1919. Our oldest marked grave is the grave of Helen Wall, and Helen Wall is the first wife of Josiah Wall. She is buried there





and she died in 1864. The property was being used as a cemetery prior to our purchase of it. It’s a three hundred seventy-­five acre track that we purchased. Originally the back of the cemetery was the entrance to the cemetery whi9ch we originally came in off of Northwest 6th street to get to the cemetery through some residential homes and their property. In later years somewhere around the early 1900s, then they started coming in off of Northwest 13th Street according to the cemetery history. Our first Doctor, Dr. R.B. Ayer is buried there, Dr. E.H. Dubose the first dentist is there, a number of educators and people within the community have been buried there.

	W:	As far as the church itself, do you know anybody who got married there?



	S:	Yes, her name is Mamie Parks, right now her name is Mamie Williams. Her wedding was there. Mrs. Anais Jones, her wedding was there, I believe that Mrs. Rawls, Yvonne C. Rawls, wife of Dr. John C. Rawls, their wedding was there.

Mrs. J. Leslie Cosby, who just passed away here a few months ago was born and christened there at Mount Pleasant, her wedding was there at Mount Pleasant, she has served there at Mount Pleasant, and she was buried there at Mount Pleasant. She was ninety years old. Dr. Ayers son still serves there at Mount Pleasant, Robert Ayer Jr. And Mrs. Mamie Williams is the great granddaughter of one of our first pastors, Reverend Alexander Dubose. She and he sister, and her children, still serve there at Mount Pleasant.





	W:	As far as different families that grew up there, as far as the community, what would you say is the biggest thing that comes from them? What would you say if someone said “What makes this church different from other churches?”

	S:	I think Mount Pleasant is church that reaches out to others, it’s a church that’s willing to help other, the have joined in numerous programs to help the entire community. They were instrumental, I know when I was a youngster, in a city-­ wide vacation bible school. A number-­

	W:	A lot of different things.



	S:	A lot of different things, yes ma’am.



W:  Compared to Mount Caramel, and all these other churches in the area, would you say Mount Caramel is the biggest church there or just the one that’s best known?

	S:	Mount Caramel is probably the largest sanctuary in the community. In terms of capacity, it was larger than Mount Pleasant prior to moving to the Northeast side of Gainesville.

	W:	Do most of the people that go to Mount Pleasant live in the area? Or is it people from all over Gainesville?

	S:	It’s from all over. Northwest, Southeast, Northeast, we have people coming from as far as Alachua to serve us at Mount Pleasant.





	W:	As far as the role of UF in the community, the University of Florida, would you say that a lot of students come from all over when it comes to the college or is it mostly people from the area.

	S:	I would say mostly people from the area. We have a few people from the college that come as well as a few of the instructors from the college that come.

	W:	Has there been any changes since UF was established early on, as opposed to now when it comes to the community?

	S:	I think much earlier the church reached out to the college community more. They still reach out to them, but I think improvement can be done.

	W:	I spoke with Desmond Walker and she’s telling me about how since UF has been established it’s been kind of difficult for people in the area, it’s been gentrified a little bit. You’ve been sort of moved and so a lot of the businesses have shut down overtime and things like that. So when it comes to the church and the foundation and the people there, what do you think has made it one of the longest running churches in the area?

	S:	I would say the membership and their willing to make sure the church was still a viable place within the community for people to worship.

	W:	Were you in Gainesville during the Civil Rights Movement? S:	Yes I was.

	W:	So what was that like for you, like what school did you go to?





	S:	Well at that time there were two schools. Lincoln High School and Gainesville High School, and I was a student at Lincoln. Integration came about during my sophomore year, and we had a group pf students who went over to GHS and graduated, I remained at Lincoln.

	W:	What was the community reaction like?



	S:	Initially, we didn’t have a problem here when the Black students went over. They weren’t welcome, per say, but they were not beat up.

	W:	With the businesses and things around the Mount Pleasant area, what was the role of integration?

	S:	We has a store right across the street from the church which people still continued to use that store as well as to go down to the large supermarkets, Publix, Winn-­Dixie, Pantry Pride, there was Bill Jones Grocery.

	W:	And so, those grocery stores are gone now?



	S:	Yea, unh-­huh. Where that store stood is now part of our parking lot. W:	Did you go to college at all?

	S:	Yes I did. I did the first year here at Santa Fe and then I went down to Miami Mortuary School, at Miami-­Dade Community College. I graduated from Miami-­ Dade with an AS degree in 1972.

	W:	What made you decide to come back here?





	S:	I always wanted to come back home. When I had left I said it, “I’m coming back home.”

	W:	Was that mostly just the community or you missed your family? S:	Family and the community. Small town country boy.

	W:	When you did come back, was it any different than when you were there before?



Was it about the same?



	S:	It was different from when I had originally left because by then you had the schools that were integrated. Lincoln was closed and they had established Eastside High School. So you had a different atmosphere with the students than what they had when I was here, because at that point we had one Black school, we had one White school. Now we had an integrated school we had Gainesville High School, we had Eastside High School, we had Buchholz High School. And we had Gainesville High School, Buchholz High School, but those were White schools.

	W:	Had you heard of any incidents or racial tensions-­-­?



	S:	There was some racial tension when there was mandatory integration, the students did not like that because they were closing Lincoln and they did not want their school closed. And there was some racial turmoil, but it was not to a large degree.

	W:	So mostly the issues that people had were they just didn’t want their school to be-­





	S:	They didn’t want their school to be closed and subsequently Lincoln then came back as a middle school.

	W:	Going back to education, what would you say is the role of education in the church, specifically, Mount Pleasant?

	S:	The role of education in the church is very good. We had, it’s not going on now, they’re in the works of reestablishing that, we had a number of the teachers in the community who were working at various schools who came in after they left school and worked with the students in a tutorial program. And that was held there at the church.

	W:	What was the reasoning-­-­?



	S:	To help our students, to help Black students. So if they were having difficulty or to help them to excel.

	W:	So is it more like a tutoring program? S:	Yes.

	W:	I guess as far as that, have you heard any success stories?



	S:	Yeah, students were very interested in it. Some of those teachers, subsequently, their health would not permit them to continue and the program went by the wayside, but there seems to be another spark to revitalize that program and they are working on that as we speak at the church.





	W:	So are there any specific stories you have of students or members, you know, maybe coming to the church searching for something and coming out? Or staying in the church because there is something that they found?

	S:	There was one young lady who came to the church back in the [19]70s she came to Mount Pleasant from UF. She was a student at UF and she came and has remained at Mount Pleasant and has been a very faithful worker, Miss Dale Williams. She recently retired from the school system.

	W:	So she came into the church-­



	S:	She came into the church under the pastoral ship of Reverend W.M. Ferguson, and she’s quoted in the church history article done by The Guardian

	W:	So what was her role in the church, what kinds of things did she do?



	S:	She’s been instrumental in, she sings in choir, usher, she’s worked with the youth department, she’s served in the finance, she’s held a number of positions there at the church and she’s still active. She still sings in the choir, she still ushers and she’s one of our greeters at the church. After service we have a group of young ladies that are, not only for our membership, but to our guests offer some type of pastry or coffee or tea on the sidewalk as they are leaving. Because our service starts at 9 o’clock so that’s kind of early for some people and by the time we get out of church, 10:30 or 11 o’clock, you’re a little thirsty [laughter]! So there is something there for them.

	W:	As far as children’s ministries and things like that-­





	S:	Children’s ministry, uh, right after church starts the children’s message is done and then the children are excused to go into what we call children’s church and they have a couple of teachers that go back to work with the children for that. If it is a first Sunday when we offer holy communion, just at about the time that the communion is going to be served, the children are brought back up to the main sanctuary so that they can too can participate in the communion service. They’re just in the reapportion of the church.

	W:	As far as Reverend McClullen do you remember when she first became the pastor?

	S:	Yes, 1988.



	W:	Was that a surprise for a lot of people because she was the first woman? S:	Yes!

	W:	Was there any controversy or were people just surprised?



	S:	Uh, surprised and she was welcomed. She made a little controversy but nothing to any great deal and she soon proved herself with the church family and the community and one of the church’s cherished dreams came to fruition with the church fellowship hall and classrooms. She came to us in 1980 and by 1990 we had a fellowship hall and about six classrooms and two offices. She has been good for the church.

	W:	I know she has a huge role in the church in itself, but what kind of things has she introduced since she’s been here?





	S:	Since she has been there we had our first class where the young people were brought into the church and they were taught what the Methodist church is all about so that they could become full 0pledged members of the church. And I just can’t think of the name of that [laughter]!

	W:	As far as the history of the church, I know that it was built by and founded by former slaves. Do you know anyone who is either in the church or is in the community that is a descendent from one of those? That was their ancestor, those people that built the church?

	S:	I don’t know any of those who built the church. Miss Mamie Williams is the great granddaughter of one of the first pastors, Reverend Alexander Dubose. We have the names of the founding trustees of the church as well as several of the trustees who followed, and several of those trustees who followed, their grandchildren, or great grandchildren or great-­great grandchildren are still playing a major part in the church. Charles Chestnut III, his great-­great grandfather was one of the trustees of the church.

	W:	Okay, do you know why the church was renamed when it was Methodist Episcopal before?

	S:	There was a merger that brought about the Methodist Episcopal to United Methodist.

	W:	Do you know what year that was? S:	That was in 1968.





	W:	And just the reasoning for that was they wanted to merge?



	S:	It was a merger between the Methodist Church and the United Brethren, and that’s when it became the United Methodist church. At one point we were the Methodist Episcopal Church. Sometimes people get us confused with the AME Church which is the African Methodist Episcopal Church, but we are not AME we are the Methodist Episcopal Church.

	W:	I know the church was either burned down at one point or-­ S:	Yes, there was a fire in 1903.

	W:	Was that just an accident or-­



	S:	It has never been said how the fire started. We have our suspicions, but we don’t know how the fire started. The church and the church [inaudible 38:44] were reduced to rubble and it was backup in 1905. The present structure that you see now was built in 1905.

	W:	And the bright red coloring of the church-­



	S:	It was red brick, and over the course of years then they decided to have the church painted, and they painted the red brick red.

	W:	Any final thoughts about the church, what would you say makes this church special? Like what makes it different from either churches in the area or just what makes it special to you?





S:  To me the church is special with its longevity in the community and it is still a viable sanctuary and still thriving there. I hope that the church will continue to thrive and that we will be able to celebrate maybe our 250th anniversary there.

W:  Alright, thank you so much! S: You’re welcome, thank you. [End of Interview]



Transcribed by:  Olivia Lafuente, February 26th, 2019 Audit-­edited by:  Sandra Romero May 14, 2019

	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, November 25, 2020