AAHP 559A, Reynolds, Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 559A Akil Reynolds

Interviewed by Adreanne Martinez on March 19, 2018 43 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: At the time of this interview, Akil Reynolds was the vice president of the Black Student Union at the University of Florida, and in this interview he explores some of the meaning the BSU had for him as a student, and discusses some of its history and contemporary operations. He also speaks on UF’s history and its complex relationship with the Black community over time. Mr. Reynolds also offers his memories of the original Institute of Black Culture; at the time of the interview, the original building had been demolished and the new structure had not yet been built. Throughout the interview, he shares some thoughts on UF’s success in meeting the needs of Black students, particularly in the time of the 2017 white supremacist march in Charlottesville and Richard Spencer’s speaking engagement at UF later that same year.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Racism; Black Cultural Centers; Black Student Union; Institute of Black Culture]



AAHP 559A

Interviewee: Akil Reynolds Interviewer: Adreanne Martinez Date: March 19, 2018



	M:	Hello, I am Adreanne Martinez and I am here with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Right now I’m in the Black Student Union Office of the Reitz Union. Today is March 19th 2018 and I am here with Akil Reynolds from the Black Student Union. So Akil could you tell me a little about yourself?

	R:	Of course, so my name is Akil Reynolds. I’m a third year Public Health major from the Pocono Mountains in Pennsylvania. I’m currently studying− already said Public Health. I guess some of the focus I would like to pursue is more of the management and policy aspect of it. I do plan to going to graduate school and I am also currently the Vice President of Black Student Union and I guess things overlap form my past in Public Health and my involvement in BSU as well as community engagement aspect.

	M:	Oh, that is really cool. You talk about the BSU. So how long have you been a part of the Black Student Union?

	R:	So Black Student Union membership is difficult to pinpoint. So I guess a general body member, I’ve been involved since my first year. I would say more so the spring, but even then in regards to leadership, I would say the spring until now. So about my freshman year until now.

	M:	Okay. So how did you first learn about the Black Student Union? Was it when you came here or did you already know a little bit about its history and its existence before that?

	R:	I absolutely did not know about its history or existence. I think, I just assumed just being Black coming to college it was kinda like “Alright well you need to be the





Black Student Union,” because especially a place like UF. And I come from a predominately White-like institutionally background before like my high school. Well I moved after my senior year, where I went to another high school that was predominately Black so experiencing that kind of made me conscious about my Black identity and how that showed up in the U.S. So like coming to college I was more curious about it. I was always, even since like the first day, I was going to get involved with the BSU, “I’m going to get involved with BSU” but then a bunch of stuff happened in the fall and I didn’t end up at least going to my first meeting until the spring semester.

	M:	Okay, so could you describe a little bit what the Black Student Union is and what you guys do?

	R:	Yeah so the Black Student Union here is so hard to describe because it is very multi-faceted in what we do. So our mission statement is to “Create, Challenge and Cultivate the future.” With that focusing on, of course Black students here, but we are open to everyone who is interested in learning more about the Black experience for good reasons, of course. But then again, we can’t discriminate due to I guess, legal constitutional whatever, whatever. [Laughter] But really to create that social support system for Black students here as well as be a voice for Black students or the Black experience and what that may look like towards administration, or even just the Gainesville community. To really, really just focusing on the Black experience in college or higher education level.





	M:	Okay. So how do you think being a part of the Black Student Union and being vice president of it, how has that influenced your whole college experience here at UF?

	R:	I would just say even being a member of the Black Student Union has really— it’s probably one of the first times I felt accepted in or comfortable in my Blackness and not so much, “Okay, like I’m not Black enough,” or like those type of messages. And I think that could also be a product of other experiences I’ve done in college. Such as Gatorship through FCDA but even like through BSU you just see very much different types of what it means to be Black and I feel when I was in high school like I grew up in a predominately White area. It was a lot of messages that distorted my identity of myself and I didn’t realize it until now.

	M:	Okay. So, I understand that the Black Student Union is known most notably for Black Thursday. Could you tell me a little about Black Thursday?

	R:	Yeah, so Black Thursday was when there was sixty-seven I believe, Black students that were arrested or students of Journalism. I don’t think there was that many Black people back then. In 1971, when Steven O’Connell was president and Black students weren’t happy with the experiences that they had. It was actually ten years after the school was integrated. The school was integrated in 1958. Black Student Union was founded in—wait no, no Black Student Union existed, no Black Student Union was founded 1968. University was integrated in 1958. Black Thursday, I believe happened in 1971. It is when, Black students and also other students it was a very intersectional movement then. But racial wise I wouldn’t say the school’s have progressive, back then, all the identities





especially when you hear about what presidents like Reitz did, but that is a whole other conversation. [Laughter]

	M:	Yeah.



	R:	But it is when students came together to advocate for a better Black experience. There was a list of demands that were created by Black Student Union leaders as well as with other school leaders at the time who were for the cause if you see a picture. Usually the picture in the Black Affairs is just— you see the Black people?

	M:	Mmhm.



	R:	But if you see the fuller uncropped image it’s like White people in there too. Or White passing people— So that’s when those demands weren’t being followed there was like a protest, a sit-in and then the people were arrested and that’s when O’Connell was like— oh and the Black enrollment began to drop significantly. People started dropping. There was like a hundred, if there was a hundred honesty. I’m like just thinking all the numbers are just coming together in my head. ‘Cause there’s just a bunch of numbers.

	M:	Yeah.



	R:	So then arrested, Black enrollment dropped and then as a reprimand, reparation, not a reparation, but as like a meeting coming together moment. O’Connell agreed for the Institute of Black Culture to be a thing and so that’s how came to be. I want to say that was like dedicated on like February 11,1971, if I am remembering correctly for when the Institute Black Culture was officially dubbed that. I’m sorry if it was all jumbled for you.





	M:	No, that’s totally fine.



	R:	I’m not much of a history person but I can remember key points.



	M:	So when you first learned about this whole history of Black Institute what were your initial thoughts on the Black Student Union?

	R:	Oh, on the Black Student Union? Um... That’s actually really good question because I feel Black Thursday is one of the reasons why I very much value the social justice aspect of the Black Student Union because it has been the forefront of change on this University for… and I say “all people.” A lot of the times I say for Black Students but even the progression of Black students translates to the progression of all marginalized students as well. I think even the most marginalized identities, not most, but all marginalized identities helps create better experience for us all because there is so many barriers that need to be broken that a lot of people don’t realize. I think it is very easy especially with the way the University has acclimated to the times for students here and ourselves to be comfortable in our oppression not so much as a result of administration but more so I believe as of other students, who are just more closely tied to their fathers for Blue Key and their great-grandfather was founding Blue Key members and you know a lot holding that system of like holding that power at the university on a student involvement level which is very much rooted in Whiteness and Black Student Union which is a involvement or which is a involvement organization rooted in Blackness. So it’s a matter of how do we use that platform to gain, to shift the power structures which are not very inclusive for other identities? So my whole big thing with Black Student Union is it makes me very much value the





power of coming together and the prioritization of social justice and how that can create just better experiences. Because after IBC came, La Casita and then MCDA came to be and now those houses are part. So you see how those things just begin to happen.

	M:	Yeah.



	R:	Progression of a community leads to progression of other communities. M:	So do you guys, as part of Black Student Union, do you celebrate Black

Thursday every year? Or do you do something special in April for that?



	R:	Black Thursday was in April?



	M:	I think so? Honestly April 15, 1971. R:	Dang. I feel really bad.

	M:	I can double check that—



	M:	But yeah I was just wondering if there was kinda like President’s Day or like I don’t know, a celebration, I guess.

	R:	No, not through the Black Student Union. I would say more so through Black Affairs where maybe we’ll just co-sponsor with them, if anything. But I don’t remember going to one. Actually, no there was one last year. Or at least my freshman year, there was a, there usually is Black Thursday celebration. But not one that BSU leads more so is through MCDA because they oversee the houses and yada yada. You know working with the Black community.

	M:	I know when I first learned about Black Thursday, I was really interested in it and I’m surprised that not a lot of people know about it. So I hope that a lot more people want to get to know about it in the future. So anyways moving on, so how





do you feel when people claim UF is a diverse campus and with that where do you think the University falls on the status of diversity?

	R:	I do think UF is a diverse campus. But then again too I think just how diversity is perceived by people pretty much depends on their background. So for me coming from a high school that was way smaller and much more Whiter than what UF is, it’s diversity to me. And even then, or it’s more diverse to me. And even when I was in high school, I don’t see as many East Asian or South Asian individuals. I didn’t see people who are very open about speaking about sexuality or the exploration of their sexuality or speaking about different gender identities or even identifying on the gender binary. And coming to UF is the first time I heard about things like that so it made me see more diversity in my eyes but it’s a matter of on an institutional level do I feel that the diversity is, you know, the whole idea diversity is where it’s inclusion. Do I think it’s very inclusive? No, I don’t and even this whole campaign of inclusive excellence, I think is a watered down form of saying social justice is what’s needed. ‘Cause just the idea of inclusive even when people say diversity of thought, like I just feel like there are more… let’s not talk about diversity of thought. Let’s talk about diversity of identities that have been marginalized for so long. I just hate when I ask people about like diversity and all they want to talk about is diversity of thought because then I think about problem, I almost cursed, problematic behaviors that you want to say needs to be inclusive of but the only reason why the University includes problematic behaviors because when you look at where the power structures… our problematic—[Laughter]





	M:	I mean go ahead. You know.



	R:	I’ll say it. I don’t care. Our problematic governor, our problematic board of trustees. So that’s where the powers are. Problematic alumni, so I mean even like the Reitz family refuses or even the O’Connells like… It’s just so political on how much the alumni and who’s giving money to the school has. And how is just… I was speaking to my other friend and on how like just the idea that Reitz’s history very much a homophobe and a racist and the fact that you have the Multi- Culture and Diversity Affairs—

	M:	In the Reitz. Yeah.



	R:	In the Reitz Union. It’s like “What?” So… sorry. But you know structures. [Laughter]

	M:	You wrote really interesting points. I liked your distinction between diversity and inclusion. I think that is a really interesting point to keep exploring. So what is your experience with the Institute of Black Culture?

	R:	I used to go to the Institute of Black Culture to hangout when it was open but even then when it was open, it felt very— I think MCDA has done has done a very much revamping or as developed more. ‘Cause back then when I was a first year it felt very cliquey and I would go there and no one would talk to me. I know what it feels like to be in those Black spaces as a Black individual hoping to find people you can relate to and then kinda feel ignored. So even when I go and utilize most of the BC— the BC is great whenever I see people out there I don’t know I always talk to them. I try to introduce myself. It’s not even just me, I see. It’s everyone interacting. Unless their doing homework ‘cause a lot of people do





homework in there and I don’t know how ‘cause it’s loud. But the IBC, I miss it. I miss having the space. I think when it comes back, it’s going to be better with the new leadership. I feel the student leaders, now at least the Black student leaders, I feel they are becoming more developed and socially conscious and more aware of their voice as students to be able to make sure that one, that space continues to be used for its purpose.

	M:	So, unfortunately when I first learned about the IBC it already started its renovation could you walk me through a virtual tour of if I were to go in there? What kind of resources I would find?

	R:	So if you would walk in through the door because we’re on the porch walking in on the right is usually a student assistant at the table. And it was actually very small ‘cause on the left you had some high top tables and then— but if you continue, so this if the desk where the student assistants were or volunteers and then you had a little sitting area over here over where you had some computers on this side but then there was a bordering wall with the tiny hallway which I believe on the left, like right kinda under the stairs was— Vee’s office was a director and in the back was the kitchen. And if we come back, like coming back through, coming from the kitchen in between facing back toward the entrance, there’s a living room area where there’s a TV and then the steps are connected to the wall on the far left. And if you go up, then there’s like a upstairs kinda conference space area And even from there it was really small. It was really small when I think about it.

	M:	That’s like a perfect description though.





	R:	Yeah?



	M:	Yeah. I could visualize it. R:	You saw it? [Laughter]

	M:	Yeah. All the shelves and everything. R:	I saw it too.

	M:	So what does the IBC mean to you?



	R:	What does it mean to me? IBC means progress to me. IBC means space. I think and it is something I even become develop more or think more about is the importance of having space in our life. ‘Cause when you think about when we become adults and we have our home or we have our apartments, what it’s like to own a property or even when you think about how generational wealth and racial power exists in the US, it’s because if the accumulation of space and having that. So IBC, I think is the only space that we have. The opportunities that has given to us to have meeting places to meet, a place to call “home” and those types of things. I think there isn’t really much that space now but there is a progress towards it. Like, “Hey have the Black Cultural living learning community” but that not even the whole space. It’s only two floors in a building and then there’s African American studies, it’s not department, it’s a center, I think.

	M:	It’s a program− R:	Program.

	M:	I believe.



	R:	it’s something it’s not a department.. M:	Which is really sad.





	R:	Yeah which is sad. And then there’s BEC I mean that’s a space but then again it’s in this racist man’s building and homophobic but yeah.

	M:	Alright so I understand that last year I believe they were thinking about merging La Casita and the IBC together and there were some protests that happened were you involved with those protests?

	R:	I was not involved with the protests. I was actually working preview during the same time that was going on

	M:	You were a preview staffer?



	R:	I was so I couldn’t even if— I mean I even had my supervisor saying “If anyone asks about what’s going on,” I don’t even remember what they told me but I remember being kinda annoyed. But then even for me personally I wasn’t really super against the idea of having a connecting like auditor—‘cause it was supposed to be an auditorium and that’s one of the reasons I mean honestly I was one of the reasons why BSU never spoke on it as an organization spoke on it ‘cause I kept that opinion to myself ‘cause at the time I felt that I would face backlash ‘cause I wasn’t like super “Hell no they need to be separated”

	M:	Mmhm.



	R:	But even so like in my leadership role one of the things I have to very much prioritize is organizational objectives versus personal preferences and I know some of the concerns people have for the merging is that it would make it easier for the university to repurpose the building and it’s not our space anymore. Once again, one of the things that bothered me about the IBC was that it was really small, so I was like alright one: another meeting space like be a great time to





utilize that, and two: even for the idea of like how the Latinx individuals and Black individuals— I think the Afro-Latinx identity is an identity that’s very much ignored and for people who are Afro-Latinx don’t see themselves as Afro-Latinx so I think more recognition towards that and acknowledgement towards the intersections of those identities was important as well. But I also see why people were against the buildings being merged like if the buildings could be bigger without being merged I’ll be like “Okay” if they have some meaning, some patio space which I think that’s what they’re doing. I haven’t really been and that’s okay too. I wasn’t really super like “They need to be merged” but I was like “Okay more space that’s awesome.”

	M:	Okay so what do you think the difference is between having the Black Enrichment Center in the Multicultural and Diversity Affairs Center here in the Reitz and having the IBC? So is there a difference in how you feel as how the space is for Black students and just for students in general?

	R:		Well BEC is a lot smaller. I feel— dang it makes me really sad ‘cause I will never get the feeling that I have or what I experienced in the BEC in the IBC because like how I said when I was in the IBC it felt very cliquey to me and now in the BEC feels like what a Black community should feel like in a University. I can’t even compare what that would feel like at a house but what I could imagine it feeling like as a house is just more openness, feeling more free, granted it’d be more of a walk but it’s just more space and more opportunities I feel like… I know they used to do meet and greets and events where all of the house is being used and I think that creates where they’ll do I guess like a day house party, not like an





actual house party, but like you know like those types of things. In BEC it’s like “Yes I think it’s better for having people from different communities to come together being that they’re all closer but then there’s little spaces on the inside so it doesn’t really allow for that much.”

	M:	Mmhm.



	R:	You know.



	M:	Okay so how do you feel that the renovation of the IBC affected community among Black students? Do you feel that it made the community stronger or it weakened it or anything like that?

		R:	The renovation? M:		Yes.

	R:	The only thing that was unfortunate about it was that it brought some people in the community against each other because there was people who were like “I’m for individual houses” and there were people who said “I’m for the conjoined houses” but then I think it also brought people together too and being able to advocate and be passionate about something which is awesome. But the renovation was just a headache in general for me to be honest ‘cause then you have the issue of like, the loudest voices versus getting the loudest voices being perceived as the voice of everyone when that’s not really it and I think that’s unfortunate because I know there were people who felt differently but because the loudest voices were like “This is what we want,” there was no internal dialogue in the community there wasn’t any “Alright let’s talk about how we feel about this talk about how we feel about that,” it was more so, “This is how us as a





select group feel and that we’re gonna advocate for this being the right way for everyone.” And I’m not saying that’s bad because I think the points that they head were valid but I also think the university could’ve addressed that. Like administrators could’ve addressed that better too, and maybe even creating that space to have the internal dialogue but it was also hard too because all this was going on during the summer which was also not very good because them doing this during the summer seemed kinda sneaky ‘cause no one was really here so there should’ve been more that went into— I think. What they’re doing now should’ve happened before like all of the having the committees and hearing from students and all that, it shouldn’t have been reactionary it should’ve been proactive.

	M:	Yeah I agree. Do you feel that the University of Florida has been efficient in filling the needs of Black students recently?

	R:	Do I feel they have been efficient in filling the needs of Black students? You know it’s so hard, it’s such a hard question to answer because one: there are things that affect Black students here that really I attribute to being very largely an issue of the students and sometimes I wonder if the lack of administration to get involved is a cop out or if they really just can’t. And I understand too, there are things they just can’t do ‘cause they will literally lose their jobs because of— once how we talked about the structures of power and who are the people they really have to serve. And even when President Fuchs released that article with Marianna on a clean dream act or advocating for a clean dream act. I was shocked ‘cause I was like, “I know those conservatives and the board of trustees





are probably like ‘What the hell are you doing?’” And I know things like…. I don’t know if I wonder if I am giving too much grace but then I wonder if I am not giving enough. ‘Cause I am just upset. Also back to— I kinda started on something but I don’t think I finished it. So I am a little congested if I sound kinda weird.

	M:	No you’re fine.



	R:	Yeah but I think UF gives students a lot of power. I even think just in higher education sense in general the student voice is a very powerful voice but then when you look at how certain students have gained power at this institution, it is very oppressive for other students of color. Oh gosh, sorry, now I am getting pissed ‘cause even students of color, then you have those ones who are like cherry picked and tokenized to be like… how we have our student body exec tickets are all three people of color but then it’s like “Are any of them Black? Oh yeah, Ian’s Black.” [Laughter] but even then it’s still power that was gained off of benefiting from a system that upheld White power in our institution. Not even White power but even male privilege, male power. I mean the fact we have an all-male ticket and no one was pressed but we had an all-female ticket and everyone was “Woah, the hell’s going on?” And like when I would ask people. I would be like “Oh what do you think a ticket all-women?” As compared to a ticket all-men they’re like “Oh okay.” So things like that. Upholding heteronormativity

and all those types of stuff. So back to the idea of Black students, I keep straying from that. Do I think the University…? What was the question?

	M:	Do you feel that the University has been efficient in filling the needs of Black students recently?





	R:	Yeah I’m gonna say no. Yeah I’m an external processor so I had to say all that to come to a conclusion. I’m going to say no because… one there’s a lot of barriers that hold them back but then I also don’t understand all the clauses to it. Those barriers may not really be holding them back and they could possibly find a way to do something about the issues that exist. But from what I do know, I am going to say no because… yeah no.

	M:	So do you have any specific concerns regarding how the University treats the Black Student Union or Black students in general?

	R:	I do appreciate that they make space for Black students or Black student Union in general. And with that being said there was the Black Town Hall which I believe there was only a Black Town Hall they didn’t see a PETA Town Hall or a LGBTQ+ Town Hall which I think they should probably think about in the future but I do appreciate that they did have on where the President was, there the Vice President of Student Affairs, the Vice President of Human Resources, the Vice President of Enrollment Management. People that had helped this University run or the reasons the University runs the way it does. I appreciate them making time for that. I do think… at least I hear from certain student affairs, Black administrators that President Fuchs reaches out to them and seems very invested in the Black student experience but then I hear about things like this top five, top five public school assaulting, outing its poor vernacular for me to use but um… I hear things like that and I also think about how that is going to disadvantage the Black community because a lot of people who are in the top like— I don’t know if you or you probably heard the pursuing top five you would





have to pursue more people in the top, not even percent, but top ten an those types of things and when you think about the majority of people who are in those top spots it’s usually people who have access to more resources higher SES and the Black community is disproportionate. When you look at wealth in Black community I am pretty sure it is one of the lowest rates of wealth in any community and even Black people who do have that type of wealth, I really don’t think they are coming to UF. I think they are going to other institutions. So yes things like that. What was the question again I feel like I keep going on a tangent.

	M:	You are fine. Do you have any concerns how the University treats the Black Student Union and Black students in general?

	R:	Yeah. So things like that but then also to appreciate− it’s a lot of pros and cons so I appreciate PACT. I appreciate them bringing that back even so Will Akins who’s the director of MCDA that brought PACT back. I wouldn’t say there not a conscious effort to pay attention to Black students ‘cause I even know like the Black Student Union president in general is consider a very influential student not even Black student, but just a very influential student leader on this campus in general. Just in regards how administration uses their voice in shaping the future for Black students.

	M:	Okay so I understand last semester there was the Richard Spencer event which was awful. So could you tell me what your plan was for responding to the Richard Spencer event and then also what the Black Student Union’s plan was? Their response to it.





	R:	So I protested or anti-protested. I don’t know people keep correcting me. I don’t remember which one is which. [laughter] But I was not for Richard Spencer being there and I was outside doing that. As a leader of the Black Student Union, even as someone as a person of color, I even was very anxious myself to go out there and protest because you know you saw the things that were−

	M:	Charlottesville.



	R:	Yeah Charlottesville and me as the one who visually represents everything that this man has advocated or is speaking out against. I know it’s putting myself at risk and I knew that wasn’t a risk that everyone was able to take. When you think about mental health and where people are at I don’t think that it was really healthy for me to be out there but just internal moral obligations I felt like I had to be out there. So for the Black Student Union, it was more so an organization of, this probably could have been done better, but it was a lot of people doing it but space off campus for student who didn’t feel safe on campus to be able to go to. There was quite a bit of people doing it and I remember there was a Google Doc that was put out and not many people filled it out. For those who needed spaces off campus if they didn’t feel safe on campus but a lot of people went home and stuff. So it wasn’t something that we really had to focus on too.

	M:	Okay, so you said you were there protesting the Richard Spencer event. Could you tell me about the whole atmosphere of that protest? What your whole day was like when you got there to when you started protesting to the end of the day?

	R:	It was very relieving. When I got there I was scared. Well getting there I was scared. I was saying “Oh my Gosh.”





	M:	Were you on Hull road? Or were you walking down?



	R:	Yeah, I was walking down, I don’t know what road, but the road where the Harn or the Museum of Science right there is. Right where the−

	M:	Phillips Center was.



	R:	The Phillips center and southwest that road. Was I protesting? Oh what was it like? Yeah I was scared going there and there was a lot of police who made me nervous and the police were nice, at least the ones I talked to. But when I actually got there, to me the action was kinda relieving. It felt like very uniformed for me to see so many people that weren’t Black screaming “Black Lives Matter,” and being at UF and going out there I’m like “Okay wait a minute. Like I don’t see IOC and PC advocating Black Lives Matter,” but that’s a whole other conversation. So seeing them scream that and then I remember even thinking to myself that if I scream “Black Lives Matter,” am I taking up space but then that was like very much given. And then I think that was very internalized oppressivess. So I had to be conscious about. And then I am screaming “Free Palestine” and like the Palestine, I keep pronouncing that wrong. And those types of things so I really like being out there ‘cause it was nice to see people coming together to advocate for good and not to advocate for what right but not for what needed to be done because of politics that were involved. I think being at UF it feels like a lot of that.

	M:	So did you skip class to protest or was your class just cancelled? R:	Yeah my class was cancelled.

	M:	Okay.





	R:	I’m pretty sure. Yeah. I ‘m pretty sure it was cancelled or I didn’t have class. No it was cancelled. I just didn’t go. I don’t even remember. I don’t even remember.

	M:	So how do you feel having Richard Spencer affected the Black community? Do you fell it was a setback in building a community or do you think it unified it even more? [Pause for noise]

	R:	Okay how do I feel…? Richard Spencer… Richard Spencer. I think really the most the most divisive aspect to deal within the community was just people having different opinions about what needed to be done. It was a lot of people saying “you need to be out there,” or people saying that “you shouldn’t be out there” and if you think you need to be out there you’re wrong. And it was more so how to react to it and I think what we could have done is holding administration accountable. Saying “You let this happen.” I think we let them get away with way too much for Richard Spencer because they were on their high of “The example nationally of how to respond to events and yada, yada, yada.” but I would say that’s something I am not very proud of. But then it’s also hard ‘cause I’m a student too and I’m also learning but then I’m also a leader for an organization so I have to hold myself accountable to these types of things.

	M:	Could you share a low point and a high point with your experiences as being a Black student at UF and also just being part of the Black Student Union?

	R:	So being involved in the Black Student Union— so I am Vice president of the Black Student Union. Did I say that?

	M:	Yes.





	R:	Yeah, Okay. Just making sure. [Laughter] Well definitely being involved in the leadership of the organization and when things don’t go right, I feel I have higher responsibilities so I do take things very… I don’t take it personally but I feel very responsible if things don’t go as the way they should. I think that also comes from me wanting to be a people pleaser and wanting to please everyone but if I am pleasing everyone I’m doing a horrible job and that is something I need to be more conscious about. ‘Cause you gotta stick to doing what’s right. What’s the organizational objectives? What’s good for the community? What this org tries to do for Black students? So for example Richard Spencer, I don’t think too many people are really pressed about it but for me, personally, we could have done a better job at responding to it. And I even had own opinions but once again working with the other. I’m not going to bring it there… for me personally I think I could have done something more to make sure we reacted to it better and then for highs, it’s a fun organization to be a part of. It’s so beautiful seeing just us coming together and the future leaders are going to come. I think that is one of my favorite parts of the leadership role is being able to see future leaders. People who I see so much potential and tell me that they admire what I do, like look up to me which makes me feel uncomfortable hearing. But, I just never as some coming from a background where I was very uncomfortable of what it meant to be Black or uncomfortable in my Blackness or not even confident in my Blackness to now being seen as a role model which still makes me kinda cringe saying a role model for Black students. It’s kinda beautiful. It makes me emotional. I think I’m gonna start crying. I don’t want to think about it too much.





	M:	So do you have any last reflections you’d like to add about the Black Student Union, the Institute of Black Culture or just diversity on campus?

	R:	We can’t be complacent. We can’t be comfortable in our in our oppression. We have to continue fighting the good fight and we have to be aware that although the structures may look different, if it’s not changing internally nothing has really changed since the day of Black Thursday.

	M:	I really like that. Well thank you so much for letting me interview you Akil. R:	Thank you for listening.

[End of Interview]



Transcribed by:

Charity Kelly,

August 23, 2019

Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 4, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

May 19, 2020