AAHP 206; Hayes; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 206 Virginia Hayes

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Kimberly Davis on November 2, 2011 40 minute | 16 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Virginia Hayes describes her childhood, including details about educational experiences and family. When discussing school, Mrs. Hayes focused upon her attendance at Lincoln High School in Gainesville, Florida. She then transitions to the topic of her father, a man who taught history and football in the high school. He also supervised recreation centers, resulting in the McPherson Center being named in his honor. Mrs. Hayes’s daughter joined the interview, and the women began discussing the effects of integration upon the school system as well as other encounters with the Civil Rights Movement.



Keywords: [African American History, Education, Integration, Alachua County]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 206

Interviewee: Virginia Hayes Interviewer: Kimberley Davis Date: November 2, 2011



	D:	All right, my name is Kimberly Davis, and I’m here interviewing Ms. Virginia Hayes, and today’s date is November 2, 2011. Well, thank you again for agreeing to do this today. And if you wouldn’t mind, would you just tell us where and when you were born?

	H:	Where was I born? I was born here in Gainesville. D:	Around what time were you born?

	H:	1932.



	D:	1932? Okay. And we had done some research. Did you attend Lincoln High School?

	H:	I attended Lincoln High School the second through seventh grade. Lincoln High School went from first grade through twelve. Originally one through twelve.

	D:	Okay. So you did second through seventh? H:	Yes.

	D:	Where did you attend before?



	H:	I attended St. Augustine’s. I don’t know if you’re familiar with St. Augustine’s daycare center, but it has now changed. I think the center has closed, but at that time it was St. Augustine School. And it was located in northwest Gainesville on, I think, NW 4th and 4th; I think it went something like in there. 4th Street and 4th Avenue. Yeah. And they had preschool and first grade. First and second grade, I believe it was. But I left there after the first grade, and went to Lincoln. When I finished—not when I finished—but after the 7th grade, I went to Jacksonville to an





all-girls school, a Methodist school. And that’s where I finished high school. And I went from there to Allen University, which is located in Columbia, South Carolina.

	D:	Do you have any memories of your time at Lincoln High School? About, essentially the—I’m trying to think of the word I’m looking for. But do you have any memories of Lincoln High School? Maybe relationships with the teachers? Anybody that sticks out in your mind?

	H:	Oh, yes. [Laughter] I remember a lot of the teachers. It was a two story building, and the elementary school was on the first floor, and the junior and high school was on the second floor. And my father was one of the teachers—T.B. McPherson—and he taught history, and he was in charge of the athletic program. He coached football, the greatest team in the south, high school in the south. [Laughter]. Yes. Behind Lincoln was just woods. There was no 8th Avenue at the time. Behind from—I guess from about 6th Street north, or 4th Street, 8th street, something—but behind Lincoln there was no, the side of Lincoln, NW 8th Avenue. There was just trees, and there was a sort of a brook. I guess it was an extension. There was a little ditch that runs behind the Girl Scout building. Are you familiar with 8th Avenue?

	D:	Vaguely.



	H:	Well there’s a little, behind that building? D:	Right.

	H:	Okay, there was an extension, I think, near the playground. Well, it wasn’t very near the playground, but it was in the woods. And there was a sort of a waterfall where we weren’t supposed to go. [Laughter] But many times the students would





go back there. But it was kinda nice, because sometimes on a Sunday afternoon, there was nothing else to do. Sometimes we would just walk, just go back there, because it was unusual. It was something different. I remember Prof. Jones, the principal. And as I said, my father taught school, taught history and he coached football. And I’m not kidding. He did have the best team around. I remember they sometimes played college students.

	D:	Really?



	H:	Yes, and the neighbor there was—I remember them playing the, I guess, it was men from the boot camp that was not far from here. And they played them. When he retired from coaching, his teams had two hundred wins, thirteen losses, and twenty-two ties.

	D:	Wow!



	H:	Now, you don’t get much better than that.



	D:	No, ma’am, you do not! Goodness, gracious.



	H:	Yes. Then he went on to be a minister. And there was a quite a bit he did. He didn’t mind going downtown asking for what, at that time, was colored people. He didn’t mind going downtown, saying, “We need lights on this particular street,” or whatever was needed. He really cared about people. He would give his last penny to someone if he really thought they needed it.

	D:	So he had quite a reputation in town? I mean is he somebody that everybody knew?

	H:	Oh, yes! Yes, and the students really looked up to him. He was very demanding; that they be gentlemen, that they do what they were supposed to do. He would





stand on the corner of Seminary Street and 8th Street. I don’t remember at that time what 8th Street was. But anyway, right now it’s 5th Avenue and 8th Street. He would stand on that corner in the evening, at night, and if he saw any of his football players out [Laughter], they got it the next day. He would make them run laps. They would give going out at night a second thought. Yeah, he was very hard on the football players, but they won games and they respected him. Years later, they would come by the house to see him. Many of the teachers went on to do civic, belonged to civic clubs, and worked for the improvement of the community. Some went in to business. They did what they could. Later, they were some of the first ones to be on the city commission—county commission, city commission—things like that.

	D:	What about your family life, or your home? Where did you live during that time?



Did you have a house? How were you living at the time?



	H:	We had a house. I lived on 5th Avenue for a while with my grandmother, but my mother and father, the McPhersons, they had a house. We had a bathroom.

Now, I can remember some of the homes on Seminary did not have bathrooms. They had the outhouses.

	D:	Oh goodness.



	H:	They had the outhouses. I’m seventy nine years old now, okay? [Laughter] There would be a truck that came through the street to clean out those outhouses. But I was fortunate to live in a home. A nice home that had a bathroom. So was my husband. We were married fifty five years, and he passed about two years ago. His father was a postman, which was unusual at that time. I think there were





about three or four colored mailmen, and his father was one. He had a nice home; a home with a bathroom and everything.

	D:	You mentioned that you, because there was nothing else to do, would go to the brook behind the school. Was there anything else that you would do when you had free time?

	H:	Yeah, there was a theatre on 5th Avenue. Do you know where the cab stand is now?

	D:	Yes, ma’am.



	H:	Well, that was a theatre, but just imagine it being much higher, much bigger than it is now [Laughter]. Yeah, there was a theatre there and we went there. I remember there was a Jewish family that—who had a very nice store downtown. They owned it. Sometimes they would give out candy when you went in. Those Sugar Daddies? Do you know anything about Sugar Daddies?

	D:	Oh, I know about Sugar Daddies! [Laughter]



	H:	I remember it was Sugar Daddies that they would pass out free when you’ve been in. Then, years later, they closed it up, and one was built a few blocks down, near where Santa Fe is now. Where the new building is on 5th Avenue, there’s still a field with just trees in it. That’s where the other theatre was. Later, we were able to go to the other theatre, and sit upstairs. We went through that. We had the recreation center. My father, during the summer, he supervised the recreation center. The recreation center was where—on NW. I guess that’s NW 2nd. Let’s see. Mount Pleasant was on 2nd. Maybe it was 1st and 2nd. Rose B. Williams building, do you know where that is?





	D:	Yes, ma’am.



	H:	Okay, that’s where the recreation center was located. And the first building that was there were barracks. A lot of people don’t know this or remember this. The first buildings were two barracks, side-by-side. The kind, I don’t know if you remember seeing a picture of it, with the oval shape kind of? Well, there was two of them, side-by-side. But there was a door in between. Inside, there was a door in between the two buildings. One building, one side, was for the USO, and the other side was for recreation for the youth. And my father ran both of them.

	D:	Really?



	H:	He supervised the colored playgrounds, like the ones in Hawthorne or Newberry.



The centers in the other towns he supervised them. And he also was on the recreation board. He did quite a bit, and so that’s why the recreation center in southeast was named after him. You know where the McPherson Center is, and the pool and everything?

	D:	Right!



	H:	It was because of his work for the city and all that he did for everybody. They named that center after him.

	D:	Wow. How long did he do all of this, the supervising of the recreations? Did he do it—?

	H:	He did that during the summer. It had to have been just during the summer. It was during the summer, because he was teaching and coaching during the school year.

	D:	Sure.





	H:	Yeah, so he supervised the recreation during the summer. And he supervised in that building, once it was built. He left that other center and went there. So he was still alive when that was built, and named after him.

	D:	Wow, quite an honor.



	H:	Yeah, my daughters unveiled the plaque at that ceremony.



	D:	That’s nice. You mentioned how he would watch over the football players at night, keep after them, and make sure they weren’t doing anything wrong. Was that something you would find with people in the community that you would watch out for each other? Or were there a lot of camaraderie, I guess, in the community?

H:  Oh, yes. Yes! If any child did something anywhere, anyone could speak to them. [Laughter] By the time you got home your parent knew. [Laughter] And you got it then.

D:   Oh goodness.



	H:	Oh yes. Everybody looked after everybody, for the most part. My mother, she was the first principal at Duval.

D:   Right! How was that?



	H:	Well, she was working at another school, one room school. In Paradise she had a school that looked like a church. She taught there, and then I don’t know the details, but then they started a school out here, and so she left there and came over here to a one room school. The houses that you see out here now were not here. Closer—there was a railroad track—there were a few homes close to the railroad track and back. But on this side, from about Duval back, there were no





homes. And it was just a dirt road. 8th Avenue, after you left Waldo Rd., 8th Avenue was just a dirt road. So I ask her how did she get there. So she said that she took a cab to the railroad track, and then she walked from the railroad track to the school.

	D:	Wow. Quite a trip.



	H:	And they didn’t have any water. And there was a faucet where [inaudible 19:50] is. They used water from there. They had a lot of help from the community, but she was the first principal. [Displays photos] That’s my father. That’s in my grandmother’s house. This is where they had a special program honoring principals at Duval, and that’s when she graduated.

	D:	Wow.



H:  Yeah, but my father was instrumental in a quite a bit years back when we didn’t have colors. We didn’t have very much. And I say was willing to help just about anyone, anyone who was trying to make it.

	D:	Wow.



H:  Yeah. Here comes my daughter. I was just telling her about Momma Laddie and she being the first principal, and how she got there walking from Waldo Road.

	KH:	Yeah, she told me about those long roads.



	H:	She has a recorder there. I think it’s off right now. KH:	Oh, I’m sorry.

	D:	[Laughter] No, it’s okay.



	H:	Now, she was—she and her sisters, I have three daughters—were among the first. Not the first group that went to P.K. Yonge.





	KH:	I was in the first group. They came when they close some of the schools in the middle of the year.

	H:	I thought the [inaudible 21:43]



	KH:	I was part of the first—well, maybe. There were two or three different groups.



There was a group that went before me.



	H:	Yeah, but not many.



	KH:	Not many. Like, one per grade level, or something like that.



	H:	And then at that time, well before that, P.K. Yonge was in Norman Hall. And then they moved to where they are now. Just before integration, there were a few there. Then, about that time she went—

	KH:	I went to second grade, so that was [19]64, [19]65, something like that. And then my sisters came when they all of a sudden shuffled all of the schools in the middle of the year. By then we were in middle school.

	H:	Yeah, it became law then, I think, for integration. So they were already on the list, so they went in. Yeah, we got a call for them. Yeah, we were just talking about what it was like decades ago, years ago. What it was like.

	KH:	Yeah, I still remember when Dr. King died, and they were going through the neighborhood telling everybody to stay home. I’ll never forget it. They called you to the door, and it just had this funny air about it. I stood in the hallway, peeking.

	D:	Wow, I can’t imagine that. KH:	It was different.

	H:	Is that on? [Referencing Recorder] D:	Oh, yes, ma’am.





	KH:	Oh, I’m sorry!



	KH:	I was going to ask you—I’m sure you told her all about Rosewood—or are you just doing Gainesville?

	H:	No, just Gainesville. KH:	Oh, okay.

	H:	Reverend Wright. We needed a pastor at our church and he came about around [19]65. In fact, he often told a story about how he was run out of St. Augustine, because he was fighting for equal rights. Very much. He was right in the middle of it, and they didn’t like what he was doing. It got pretty hot for him, and we needed a pastor. So someone, I think Deacon Nichol, knew his brother who was in Daytona. I think his brother told him about Reverend Wrights. Bottom line is, he came here. One night, I was helping with youth forum. We had one of the biggest groups of youth of any church around at that time. And Nichol, Judge Nichol, was in the group, and he asked Reverend Wright when he was going to get something started here. So, Reverend Wright became part of the NAACP. He was president for a number of years. Sometimes, we were kind of scared to go to youth forum on Sunday nights, because there was some burning. I guess that was after the death of—

	KH:	Of Dr. King?



	H:	Yeah—no. That was before that. I don’t know what had happened, but there were some—I forgot now—but there were some burning. Some of the stores, and what have you, were burned. And Reverend Wright was getting death threats on the phone. And our church was right on 5th Avenue, so we were very





watchful [Laughter] when we went to church on Wednesday night. The NAACP— it was a two story building, and the NAACP had met in the downstairs. And Reverend Wright was out front, trying to get some things done. They didn’t like that.

	KH:	Did you tell her about Daddy T and the recreation? H:	Yeah, yeah.

	D:	Speaking of the church, you said that there was a lot of tension going there because of being afraid, but did it still play a big part of your life going to church?

	H:	Oh, it didn’t stop us from going to church. No, it didn’t stop us from going.



	KH:	We kids, really, couldn’t notice much of a change. The adults just kept doing what they knew to do. They kept us just going about what we were supposed to be doing. So, it was like, “Okay, this is life. We’re going to youth forum or we’re going to.” I guess by then I was still in the Red Circle girls.

	H:	Yeah.



	D:	What were the Red Circle Girls?



	KH:	The names for different age groups. As much as I loved watching all of the teenagers in the youth forum and walking behind them, all wide-eyed. But I was part of the younger kids, because I was still in elementary. In the Red Circle Girls and the Sunshine Band.

	H:	Going back to when I was a child, they used to bring the troops from Camp Blanding. They would bring them to town on the weekend. And they would park the trucks on 5th Avenue. My grandmother’s house, back toward—well the trucks were parked between, my guess, 4th Street and 8th Street, but especially round





about 6th Street on 5th Avenue, going north. I remember a truck almost being right in front of my grandmother’s house. But they would bring the men here for recreation and I think that’s when they built the hall that they are redoing in front of the museum.

	KH:	The Cotton Club.



	D:	Yeah, the Cotton Club.



	H:	That Cotton Club! That cotton club came from Camp Blanding, so that they would have something to do, because they couldn’t go to the other USO or other places. So they brought that in so they had some place that they could go and dance, and that’s what it was. It was a dance hall. Whatever they wanted to do, they would do. [Laughter] Whatever they wanted to do at that time.

	D:	Sorry, a lot of these questions don’t make sense anymore. [Laughter] H:	What?

	D:	Well, I mean, just because you’ve been covering so much, a lot of these questions I don’t even have to ask. It’s great! But, particularly around when the segregation really did come to an end around 1970 where all the schools were mixed up, and moving around, were there a lot of noticeable changes among the community, or did everybody…if that makes sense? I’m trying to have a better way to word that.

	H:	Well, when that was coming about, there was a group of young colored men.



Chestnut was one of them, my brother in law was one of them, and Vernon was one of them. I think he was. But it was a group of them that they would go to different places to see if they would be allowed in, though they knew that they





weren’t. But they would go. Like McCrory’s Five-and-Dime store; they had a counter, a dining counter, and the theater. That was something else, too, but they did it. Trying to break through.

	D:	When were they finally able to get through? Did they ever get any—?



	H:	I guess after the bus ride; whenever. After that when the law was passed. They were brave. They did it. And then the schools, there were three, they went to GHS—

	KH:	We had a bunch of kids come to P.K. And then when they broke up Lincoln they went to GHS.

	H:	No, the very first time LaVon, and Sandra, and Joel— KH:	Joel Buchanan went to GHS.

	H:	Joel Buchanan, yeah.



	KH:	But when they closed Lincoln the kids went to GHS.



	H:	But they were the first. They were the first ones, the first three, integrated, so they went through some things. The student body took to the streets when they closed down Lincoln, but those three were the first ones that really broke through, or were able to, I think, when the law was changed.

	KH:	Before they finally accepted it here, it really did hold some change in the schools. D:	Let me see if there is anything else.

	H:	And, then downtown, Blacks had their own street. There was just about a couple of blocks downtown. See, we couldn’t go into much of downtown. We couldn’t enter. So there was a, I think it was, SE 1st Street or 2nd Street. And Blacks had— that’s where they had restaurants, the cab stand. The cab stand was originally





there before it went to 5th Avenue. Barbershops; just nothing but Blacks. Those stores in a couple of blocks downtown. We had our own stores. And 5th Avenue had—there were Black stores, restaurants, all kinds of stores. We had everything, just about, on that street.

	D:	Just a couple of more questions. I promise we’re almost done. When integration finally happened, in some of the interviews that have been done in the past at UF, people have mentioned that when integration happened, a lot was lost among each race, as far as maybe the closeness in the community, or maybe the unity among everybody, if that makes sense. Is there something that you actually think was lost through integration, when that happened?

	H:	Somewhat, yes. After integration and we could go anywhere, then the motivation to have our own business and what have you went down, but it’s coming back up. Don’t you think?

	KH:	Mmhm.



	H:	But it went down after integration. I guess it was saying that there was no need to start a business if we could go over here now and go to a different place. That happened. But it’s coming back up now. People are being encouraged. And the other thing is that it was harder for us to borrow money. Someone from another country could come here and get money faster than we could to start a store.

Yeah. It was much easier for someone else to come to this country and go to a bank, and borrow money to start a business.

	KH:	I used to hear Daddy and Momma talk about not knowing who everybody is anymore. When Momma was growing up, you could ask somebody, “Well, who





are your people?” And they knew who everybody was. If I were to mention somebody to my dad or to my grandmother, it would be like, “Who are they?” and, “Where did they come from?” Even though they were African-American. So that shift was somewhat problematic for them, because they were used to knowing who everybody was and where everybody came from.

H:  With the University and other companies that have come in, more people have come in for jobs. So now it’s just as many people who are from other places as people who were born here. You don’t know everyone now.

	KH:	Yeah, and you live in all the different quadrants of the city, rather than any specific given area.

	H:	Yeah, cause when I was growing up, just about everybody in here lived in northwest Gainesville. You either lived in northwest Gainesville or southeast Gainesville, near the Depot, around those parts. But now, you have people that live anywhere. Anywhere your money can take you, you can go now. We’re not altogether.

	D:	Just one more question to close it out, if that’s okay. Barack Obama was recently elected—or, I say recent, it seems recent, 2008 he was elected—and you hear people say how far this country has come, which I mean it has, but do you think that he is actually being given a fair shot? Is he being judged the same way as a White president would? What do you think on that?

	H:	Oh, no. No, he’s not treated the same way, in that everything he says or has come up with, it’s been, “No!” If he said the sun was shining, they’d say, “No, it’s not shining.” No, he’s been treated different.





	KH:	And they don’t give him credit for the things he’s accomplished. H:	Yeah.

	D:	I agree. Well, is there anything else that you’d like to add or mention that we haven’t gone over?

	H:	No, not really. No, we talked about Downtown, schools…I think that’s about it. D:	Well, thank you both for agreeing to do this. Thank you so much.

[End of Interview]





	Audit Edited by:	Jennifer Romero, May 30, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019