AAHP 717; Steele; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 717 Henry Steele

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on August 4, 2019 40 minutes | 15 pages





Abstract: In both the beginning and end of the interview, Reverend Henry Steele discusses the significance of love and community. Love is his driving force. Through the interview, Steele emphasizes the intersection of activism and church, explains how he became a minister, discusses his position and affiliation with the historical figure Ralph Abernathy, talks about his family, with an emphasis on his father who opened his home to diverse populations, and breaks down steps to further progress as a country. To Steele, Tallahassee remains a pivotal place and haven for civil rights and social justice.



Keywords: [African American History; Civil Rights; Church; Tallahassee]



Standards:



SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.



SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws SS.912.A.2.6 Sharecropping

SS.912.A.6.15 Examine key events and peoples in Florida history as they relate to United States history.























For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 717

Interviewee: Henry Steele Interviewer: Paul Ortiz Date: August 4, 2019



	O:	We are here August forth. We are at the home of Sam and Thelma Dixie, we are with the Rev. Dr. Henry Steele. My name is Paul Ortiz with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Reverend Steele--thank you so much for sitting down with us today to talk.

	S:	Glad to be here. It’s good to see you always Paul. O:	Thank you.

	S:	Since I just did an interview with you a few months ago at PCC, or somewhere, or FAMU.

	O:	I think we started an interview, but then you had an incredibly busy schedule, and then you had to go to another engagement, and we just had a really short kind of interaction. But any time I have the chance to talk with you, I really try to devote the time that we have together. There is a lot of information about you, obviously, in media, online, in newspapers, and I found this clip from a Tallahassee source, and I just wanted to read it. It’s just a couple of sentences, if you don’t mind. It says: “Reverend Dr. Henry Steele is a testament to a life well lived and shaped by overcoming the challenges of segregation.” And I thought that that really encapsulated, at least a part of what your life has been about. Can you tell us how you have lived this life well lived and how you’ve struggled to overcome the challenges of segregation?

	S:	I heard, you know, in John talking of, a little while ago, along the theme of love.



Love, I think, is the greatest force, I believe, on earth is what has brought me having been taught and led in that projection of being able to protest, resist





whatnot and still love the object of that resistance. I think is what has brought me and so many others like me along the way. Segregation sure was an obstacle all the time in my younger, formative years and still is, as a matter of fact. But with love, with faith underlying that love, you can surmount mountains, and I think that’s been my case in my life whether it was Civil Rights or otherwise. Love, I think, is crucial and basic.

	O:	What role Reverend Steele does community play in love?



	S:	Community is more less the depiction of love. Of course, it depends on what that community is all about, but love does not exist community, I don’t believe.

	O:	So Reverend Steele, you gave the address attack at the last Tallahassee Bus Boycott Commemoration, and you were talking about how important it was for you as a young man growing up to be in this community where a lot of people were protesting injustice and segregation. Can you talk about what that milieu is like as a young boy growing up and seeing people around you push back against injustice and why that was important for you?

	S:	I’m not sure why it was so important, except that I must’ve just been born with it in my blood. But it was very significant for me, and it made me very proud. I was proud of the movement from its beginning on up until now. I think all Black people, African Americans, are nearly all proud of the struggles and the coming to here that so many, so many different kinds of strifes.

	O:	Mmhm. What made Tallahassee so special in terms of both the movement here but also race relations? What made Tallahassee distinct, if you will?





	S:	I’m not absolutely sure about that, but I think Tallahassee’s climate, which involved the two universities and the state capital, I think has something to do with the mentality here. You had good leadership among Blacks and Whites, actually, and I think Tallahassee’s movement was not the kind that brought about the same kind of hatred, malice, violence as in Birmingham or as the kind of violence and unsettling that we saw during the Freedom Rides, but we never had any murders and bombings, things like that. I don’t know if that’s what you were referring to, but I think the movement in Tallahassee has through the years been successful where we are today because of the early phases of the movement.

Where we are now is a good question, and as you all were talking King’s book Where Do We Go from Here, that question is still relevant and makes sense today.

	O:	Reverend Steele can you talk about the impact that your parents had on you growing up in terms of the values that they tried to instill in you, the aspirations they had for you and your siblings?

	S:	Most definitely. Our teachings early on were the same teachings that we received during the movement. I remember our parents stressing with us as little children, shouting and the love and forgiving and proper behavior as little boys and girl, children. And as there was definitely an impact from the very beginning, from my institute years as children. It was just a way of life. It was a philosophy of life that was handed down through our parents.

	O:	Did you have aspirations as a child or as you got into middle school about a career, about an occupation? Were you starting to think along those lines?





	S:	I think the decisive time was in my junior or senior year in high school. That’s when I began preaching, which has been my career. It started in 1961. I was a junior in high school. I don’t know if I missed the question or hit it or what.

	O:	Yeah, right. So from a young age, it sounds like you really had settled on the idea of wanting to become a minister.

	S:	Exactly.



	O:	Okay. Why?



	S:	I’m not exactly sure, except for what was up in all of us, that’s what I’m interested and that’s what I like to do. In the ministerial circles, we talk about a calling, and all of us have callings, but we especially talk about the call to the gospel ministry. I converted that feeling, that deep feeling and unavoidable yearning, as a call, and I responded to it. The teachings of that faith and the teachings of Civil Rights fighters go right along together.

	O:	Reverend Steele, can you talk about the training you received at a maybe an informal, but also a formal to become a minister?

	S:	So when I finished high school, I already knew I was going into the ministry. I had already been licensed to preach, and I became ordained my third year in college. I went on from college to seminary, to do any of this school and I tested in New York. I studied there for the three-year degree at that time. All the activities, church related to faith related, all of those had something to do with it.

	O:	As you began to read more, like say maybe perhaps in theology, history of religion, were there certain teachers or certain, you know John D. talked earlier about authors, philosophers who really inspired him. Were there writers or maybe





theologians or others who really inspired you, that you thought wow, this is really powerful?

	S:	Right. When I entered seminary, it was the year of the “God is dead” theology, and one of those exponents was my theology professor at Colgate: Bill Hammerstein. That was of course quite a thing for me.

	O:	I’m not familiar with that school, you said the “God is dead”-- S:	Theology. You remember that John?

		O:		 I didn’t hear the question S:		The death of God theology. O:	Yeah.

	S:	Back in the early [19]60s.



		O:	That was probably my philosophy. S:		I know.

	O:	I can assure you God is not dead.



	S:	Absolutely. And they were not saying that He was dead, if I grasp his theology, his thought behind it, and I made straight As in his class [Laughter] But in college, there was LM Colvin, Dr. Luscious M. Colvin, who was a religion professor, and he had a tremendous impact on me. He had a simplistic way of implementing the depth of his thoughts and beliefs, his teachings. His encouragement meant a lot to me. Going to college we were baffled that this church there none of the people who were influenced and that was Dr.

James Hudson who was also associated with my dad at Bethel. He was college ministered for A&M and philosophy instructor who had also finished Morehouse





and Colgate. I was influence greatly by others. My pastor in Atlanta when I was in college, Sine Ellis, long deceased now. But the things I was surrounded by,

faith-based people being in my dad’s home were encountered all the time by people coming and going … I think in the long line of all the people who came through and associated--all of those people had impact. I think I knew the life, and I had to do it, but it was a hell of a bigger deal than one would ever think to just be a minister.

	O:	You mentioned being in your father’s household and being with groups like the SCLC, for example, a civil rights organization headed by ministers. What kind of impact did that have on you as a younger minister-in-training to see all of these ministers involved, not just in the church or with the congregations but out doing things, protesting?

	W:	Well, one thing it did for sure is all of the people came from diverse backgrounds and diverse institutions and organizations, rabbis coming through and other various denominational leaders and other iconic people we had them all the time. I think that was a great environment for all of us because we got a chance to meet so many different people, different ideas, but bound together somehow with some common flair.

	O:	Reverend Steele, can you talk about as you got older, as you matriculated from the seminary, where did you go next in terms of your work and your—?

	W:	I was fortunate, and sure I say fortunate, just to before graduating from seminary, I received a call from Ralph Abernathy, Martin Luther King had been killed a month before. I was getting ready to finish seminary, my dad and King’s Vice





President, and having known them all through the years, he learned I was graduating, and he needed someone to help him at his church while he took up the manner from Martin Luther King. I was invited to come to Atlanta to be his assistant. That was my first job. I was invited to be thrown right back into the middle of things, so to speak. So I was assistant to Ralph Abernathy at his church, my first job.

	O:	Wow. That sounds like scary in some ways, I mean it’s so intense.



	W:	It certainly was because not only was I being involved in the church, but I was back involved, and probably in a bigger way since than previously, in the movement.

O:  What kind of a person was Ralph Abernathy? In some ways, we don’t hear nearly as much about him, he lives in Dr. King’s shadow, but what kind of a person was he?

	W:	For one, he was not Martin Luther King for sure by a long shot. Even though Ralph Abernathy tried to insist that he was by saying that he may not be walking those big shoes Martin Luther King, but he had some sandals of his own. So he thought pretty good and well of himself. I believe in the shadow of King, he had some inhibitions, but he wanted people to really love him. He had something in his personality somehow that would turn a lot of people off, away from him. But he was a very good guy, he was a kind of person— and sometimes little jealous, but he was definitely dedicated to the movement. He had his own idiosyncrasies, but other than that, he was a good man. He was a great supporter and leader in





the movement. Good family man with his children and wife. And good pastor. He was one of the most hands-on pastors to be away so much that I ever saw.

	O:	Wow. Reverend Steele, can you describe what you did during those years, what your responsibilities were?

	W:	My responsibilities at the church were very much the same as any single pastor at a church. I heard all about the business of preaching, the organizations and so forth.

	O:	That’s a lot of work to do.



	W:	Right and right out of school. I was used to pastors’ work and what’s expected of him in the community. Went to Atlanta to a big church, a big congregation, and I felt gratified that I had that opportunity. I was right where I think I wanted to be at that time. [Laughter]

	O:	Wow. And how many years were you in that capacity or in that position?



	W:	I was only working for Abernathy about a year and a half. Actually, the church did not pay for me to be held at that office, that positon. Help was offered to Ralph by the American Baptist Convention, who asked him what they could do for him after Martin Luther King died, what could they do that would best help him. He told them to provide me with an assistant at my church. As it so happened, I was the one graduating that I guess came to mind.

	O:	Wow. What came next after you finished that year and a half?



W:  After that, American Baptist hired me to work for them in their organizing and developing a work in The South. So I, along with a couple other men, moved down to work and organized the southern churches and institutions that were





American Baptist affiliated into a south supporting organization. It’s a huge organization now, based up in Maryland, faction of American Baptist.

	O:	About how many members are there of that-- W:	American Baptist?

	O:	Yes sir.



	W:	You know, I don’t know now. O:	It’s a very large organization.

	W:	Oh yeah. It’s the counterpart, if you say the counterpart, to Southern Baptist.



Many years ago, the North and South separated and became Southern Baptist and Northern Baptist. Northern Baptist through the years changed its name to American Baptist, so it’s the prominent denomination among American Baptists and southern Baptists, basically White, both integrated now. American Baptist has been integrated for many years, but not along the scale that it is at this time. Many Black Baptists, National Baptists, others align themselves with American Baptist. They are able to reap the benefits of being a part of American Baptist as well as contribute.

	O:	Reverend Steele, earlier we were talking about oppression and segregation and Christianity. How do you reconcile— I guess this is maybe more of a philosophical question I’m sure you’ve been asked before, but how do you reconcile the existence of these great evils in the world and the existence of God? As some people would say, “Well, if there was a God, why would God allow such things to happen?” I’m sure many people have posed this question to you, how do you respond to that?





W:  Yeah, I don’t always try to come to an answer to that because I can’t answer for God; but good and bad happen to everybody, whether we are His people or not. So I don’t try to answer it.

O: Oh. Excellent [Break in recording]

	O:	Reverend Steele, we were talking about in terms of your career, can you also talk about your family? As you’re establishing yourself as a young minister, what was your family life like, when did you first meet your wife and what was that like?

	W:	I met my first actually before I finished school. I was a junior—well, I was married by the middle of the year in seminary and was married during that time, and not just in New York. So when I came to Atlanta, I was already married. That marriage lasted about three and a half years, but we were newlyweds, and we were going this way and that. My wife was working for Coretta King in her office, and we were caught up in that whirlwind of activities. No children born to that marriage. We were divorced. It was after that divorce that I received a call to my first senior pastor in Montgomery, Alabama. After a couple years, I was remarried, which marriage didn’t last long at all. [Laughter] It happens that way sometimes. I was mostly a single pastor in Montgomery. Maybe about halfway through the seventh and a half years I was there, I was called from Montgomery to Orlando, Florida, and I guess, at every church I get another wife. [Laughter] I was remarried there, and one daughter was born, just around the same time my mother died.

She was born on the seventh. Mom died on the third.





	W:	Right. That marriage dissolved. In fact, when she was conceived, it was already dissolving, and now, she is in Atlanta. She finished Florida A&M and went on to earn her Master’s and now, a Doctorate. Her mother is retired and up there as well, in Atlanta. But much of my pastoral years, I was single, and single now and have been for quite a few years.

	O:	You were in Montgomery for seven years. W:	Seven and a half years.

	O:	Seven and a half years. When you moved to Orlando, was it a lot different than being in Alabama?

	W:	Absolutely. It was probably more different than most place I have lived. I couldn’t feel the same kind of base or solidity among African Americans as I do here in Tallahassee or I did in Montgomery, Atlanta, and other places. Yes, it was different, especially in that way. Most places I lived, there was an African American university or college there, and so that also made a difference in the kinds of people that I was most familiar with.

	O:	What were race relations like in Orlando when you moved there, compared to other cities you had been in?

	W:	Well, I didn’t go to Orlando until [19]78. There were—southern town, but I think with Disney and all of the other things, it became more of a diverse situation, and people just went on along. There were issues that popped up in factions of the people that might be together on lighting, but that was never any overall kind of feel of movement in Orlando during all my time associated there.

	O:	And how long were you working in Orlando?





	W:	I was there, at that time, for about three years. When I went back there in [19]92, I stayed there about seven years. Then, I worked for Orange County Administration for a while before moving back home to Tallahassee in 2006.

	O:	When you moved back to Tallahassee, you know thinking about this intense history that you and your family lived growing up and the experiences you had being a minister in different cities, what was it like coming back to Tallahassee and what had changed in the intervening years and what had stayed the same?

	W:	Well, you have to remember I wasn’t totally isolated from Tallahassee, I was always back and forth all my life. But it has something to do also with where I am in age as to other times, how I perceive things. I’m trying to think of anything specific. For one thing, my dad is not here. That makes a difference. Not here in body anyway, but in spirit he’s always around. My father kept this city, African Americans, geared to what was needed and what needed to be done in regards to African Americans and especially with civil rights. He was an advocate for that everywhere and all the time, and actually, in a way still is. You can feel the growth from times previous, but I don’t find it as repugnant as sometimes in the past, and as I find many other places. I was glad to come, I was really glad to come back here.

	O:	Just a few more questions, and I hope you don’t mind me asking about your father. I remember sitting here, next-door in the summer of [19]94, when I first met Mrs. Laura Dixie and Sam Dixie, and when he started talking about the civil rights as you can imagine, the first individual that he mentioned was Reverend CK Steele. And especially Laura Dixie. There was something about the way she





talked about him as being always there for people, and I interviewed Mary Ola Gaines also during that time--

	W:	Both who ladies who were some of the most adamant followers in the movement since the bus boycott time. Mary Ola Gaines and Laura Dixie. They even ventured to national SCLS meetings every year and was involved on that scale as well as local. But they were some of the foremost civil rights fighters in the city, and they followed my dad to a tee and believed in him.

	O:	What explains that kind of relationship, I know it’s kind of a movement relationship, but how do you explain that kind of loyalty that exists? Cause its rare, right?

	W:	If we had that kind of sense all over, it’s amazing what probably could have happened between now and then because everybody had that kind of mentality, commitment and involvement. We moved mountains, so if we could move some more. [Laughter] They were really straight up. And that was the many others, but you didn’t find many like Laura Dixie, Mary Ola Gaines, Carol Ross; that was three women. There were few others, one or two men who always there, just always on scene when needed when something happens.

	O:	Yes sir. Reverend Steele, what remains to be done? You know, we talked earlier about Dr. King’s Where Do We Go from Here, what are some of the unfinished business, if you will, of the movement.

	W:	I think a lot of housecleaning involving crime and murders, homicide within ourc community. We need to focus on that and come together with some resolution as to how to deal with and how to stop it. And also, as we are more integrated and





that fuses in with all population we lose some of our thrust, I believe perhaps or our power. We have to have a conscientious effort to fight and block discrimination and unfairness whenever, wherever we see it, and not just for us but for anybody. That’s what I believe.

	O:	When you encounter younger people who are interested in going into the ministry, you know becoming a pastor, you know, what words of advice do you have for them?

	W:	People going into the ministry? O:	Yes sir.

	W:	Make certain of your calling, that that is where you feel you should be. Don’t just jump into something because it sounds good and gorgeous. Do something that draws your passion, your commitment, your heart, as well as your capabilities.

	O:	Well Reverend Steele, I’ve taken up a lot of your time. Are there any closing thoughts you have or anything else you’d like to share?

	W:	I don’t guess so. I think this is a very important time in American history for not just African Americans to get together and hold together for the benefit of society, when it comes to love and community, fellowship, what I really love because what the president and the administration is doing to our country is something that’s going to be felt, I believe, for a long time. We really need to stand up and resist this kind of thing, especially in our government at this time. We don’t wanna lose ground that we’ve made, and we’ve made a lot of ground, and it didn’t come with just no effort, but with a lot of sacrifice and deliberate efforts. We don’t need to lose any ground, and we can if were not careful, especially with this





kind of thing where our president is low rating us at every turn and making shameful and disdainful comments and whatever.

	O:	Well Reverend Steele, thank you for sitting time and taking so much out of your day, so much time. It’s been an honor to speak with you, and I want to thank you for the interview.

	W:	Oh I could just sit on down it’s gotten nice, the breeze is nice. [Laughter] Always glad to share with you, Paul, and I want to commend you on the continued good work you are doing assembling and dealing with our history and the oral tradition.

	O:	Well, thank you.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Katie Delk, September 3, 2021 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, September 9, 2021

	Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, September 14, 2021