AAHP 266B; Perkins; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 266B Gladys Perkins

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Keilani Jacquot on May 21, 2012 1 hour, 23 minutes | 30 pages



Abstract: Ms. Gladys Perkins is being interviewed by Keilani Jacquot in Gainesville, Florida on May 21, 2012. The interview begins with a discussion of Ms. Perkins’s experiences of being a union steward and her observations about how unions have changed today. Ms. Perkins then describes the racism and sexism she experienced while working. Ms. Perkins discusses her involvement in voter registration drives and restoration of civil rights of the incarcerated. There is conversation about discrimination in distribution of public funds by Gainesville’s city government.



Keywords: Gainesville; union; sexism; police; law; NAACP; voter registration; incarceration; Porters; Depot Park; discrimination



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 266B

Interviewee: Gladys Perkins Interviewer: Keilani Jacquot Date: May 21, 2012



	J:	This is Keilani Jacquot for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. The day is the 21st of May in 2012 and we’re here in Gladys’s house in Gainesville. Last time we talked we left off when we were talking about your time with the telephone company and you being a union steward while you were there. Could you tell me about how you came into that role?

	P:	How I became a steward? J:	Yeah.

	P:	Well, I joined the union and there were a lot of things happening that I felt was wrong. Employees were being mistreated and the union was the source by which we corrected these injustices. So, the union CWA local 3105 was a very strong union and I wish they were as strong today as they were then. ‘Cause it was the power of the people. Unfortunately, you know you have to force people to do what they’re supposed to do; treat your employees fairly. And it’s just like people want to be, first of all, treated with respect and receive their fair shares. If they work hard, they should be paid for that work and paid fairly. So, the union, to me, was a source of just sending a message to management, to those who thought that they could treat people any kind of way without ramifications. I really enjoyed being a union steward, because I helped a lot of people.

	J:	What kinds of things did you do as a union steward? P:	Like from when we went on strike?

	J:	Yeah.





	P:	One year we were on strike I stayed out. I was the…team leader of our building…well assistant—anyway, I couldn’t get anybody to come out on the picket line that particular morning. It was just me and an elderly lady, I don’t know where my picture is of Rosemary, but I stayed out most of the day and ended up in the hospital. The thing about that was people started calling and they were so concerned because I ended up in the hospital and I’m out there in the sun and I’m working all day. I turned completely black. They got out. They started coming out. So that was pretty good. I liked it when they want to suspend people for no good reason. They use any excuse to suspend them and then I go in and handle the case and it’s taken care of. People needing sick leave, all sorts of things so we fought for that and we won, won quite a few cases. With the phone company, that was the good ole boy system that worked for a long, long time. And people just—once they become complacent and they’ve been in positions for so long and they’ve done things the same way for so long, they think that they can continue to do that and it’s just not right because you just cannot treat people any kind of way. The union was really strong and stood up for the rights of everybody, and people fought hard back then. It’s not like that now. I was at…I went down to the Civic Media Center. The labor party had a showing of a film, the Universal Health Care, but I look at the people. The younger people are out trying to make a difference, but they still lack the passion that we had back in the day. I think it’s just because so many things come so easy for people and it’s not a hard struggle, it’s a struggle but it’s not a hard struggle. It’s not a matter of life and death, whether I eat today or eat tomorrow, whether I have a place to sleep.





We’re getting back there with people losing their homes and stuff and jobs, but it’s still the passion. It’s all about me, we’re a me, me, me society now and not everybody else. I think that’s the big difference in a lot of things. Go ahead, jump in.

	J:	It’s okay. Well, so maybe what would you talk to these people about or tell them or advise them on?

	P:	The younger generation? J:	Right.

	P:	I thought about it at the meeting, and sometimes I think about my mother and how she would stand in church and tell people about the struggles and how she made it to that point, but a lot of people don’t want to listen. I was thinking if I stood up and told them some of the things that I went through. My daughter is thirty-one years old. So, I feel that I’m at the age my mother was and what they had in their day we don’t have today. I can’t really connect with my daughter and she was on the picket lines with me. I took my daughter everywhere. She was with me, but that struggle—and if I can get them past the point of “okay things are much better now” and I think that’s why they don’t have the passion. They think that things are better today than they were yesterday. They are not, we’re just in a different place in time. They’re not any different. There’s no difference. Racism still exists. Inequality still exists. Your fair share, equal pay for equal work, it doesn’t happen. Women get paid less than men. It’s still harder for a woman—they were talking about more women have lost jobs than men. Hello? It’s the positions they hold. Men are still CEOs running companies. The majority





are men. The jobs that we are able to get, even with degrees, it does not matter. All that is still there, it’s just hidden under the pretext that things have changed. They haven’t changed. Not at all.

	J:	Have you seen an—maybe, personal cases? Maybe more obvious individual cases of racism or sexism? Especially in your work as a union steward or—?

	P:	Let me tell you of my personal experiences. _[8:05 elapsed inaudible]_ I went to work for the sheriff’s department. Been a while since then—trying to think—this one Black female was on radio. She worked EMS; rarely worked alone with the deputies but with the EMT’s. I think I was the only Black person training at that particular time. Once it became time for me to get a promotion to work on teletype, they put me with a White female. You could tell she was racist, didn’t like Black people, but she was supposed to train me. I get on teletype. You have to check tags if deputies are out with a particular person they do a traffic stop, and run the tag, check to see if they have warrants, da da da da da. She didn’t train my properly. She’d sit with me for a few minutes, then claimed she had to go; had to go back. So I’m sitting there trying to work. The deputies actually helped me. They’d just say teletype   [00:09:41 inaudible]  . I said okay. So I reported, I reported every incident. The supervisor didn’t like that and every little mistake I made after that was held against me. Write me up, write me up, I complained about it, write a letter. And then I had a call—oh they put me on midnights; 7 pm to 7 am and I had gotten a letter from my doctor saying I couldn’t work those hours, but they kept me on those hours deliberately. And I’d gotten a





call early one morning; this man woke up, eighty-five years old, found his wife hanging from the ceiling-

	J:	Oh my goodness.



	P:	Protocol is that I advise him to cut the person down. I did not do that. I’ll never forget that man’s name. I tried to talk down this man; you know crying and upset all this. And I’m going through these—that’s what I really didn’t like because you feel for people. So the supervisor on duty, “Oh Gladys you’re going be in trouble.” I just looked at her. I could care less and I was suspended because I did not tell him cut his—he had to get on a chair and cut his wife down. He’s eighty-five.

He’s emotional. And I told them, if I had to do it again I would do it the same way. I went—I was suspended and I decided, let me see what these people are gonna say. I went and discussed everything with the major, the captain, all the way up to the sheriff. Olege was the sheriff at that time, he really did like me. I don’t care who you are, if I see injustice I am gonna speak out. That’s what I do, like it or not. One of the supervisors told me “Gladys you don’t look the way you are, because I’m not gonna take this crap from you ‘more.” I’m sitting up there one night, they have a deputy, a Black deputy, in the middle of the night responding to a call in the country with reports of rifles and guns. They know once they get that report, weapons, you send more than one person. And I called them on that too. They didn’t like it. Well no, no, no, no, no it was me against them, and I was terminated because I failed to follow policy of procedure, but I told them I would do it again. I filed a lawsuit. I reported it to the EMC and human relations commission in Tallahassee. I think it goes back to these people being in an office





for so long, our constitutional officers. We need to change their service time. There needs to be limits on how long they’re in office. They shouldn’t be allowed to run more than twice because they become—I don’t know, just so secure in their position and still believe that they can do anything they want and Olrege actually thought that I was just gonna take that from him, in a way. He would not speak to me this day. I don’t care. I’ve never liked him and I never will. I have to love him. He’s a child of God. I have to in order to go to heaven, but I don’t like him. He’s an evil person. So then I go to the public defender’s office. These attorneys don’t come in every day. They do not talk to their clients until like fifteen minutes before court. I had problems with that. The secretary’s don’t answer their phones. I’m the only one answering my phone trying to—once I got promoted, I was upstairs, but I saw, down at the reception, what was going on. They don’t talk to their clients. I’m upset about all this and I’m trying to tell people Richard Parker needs to go. This man has been public defender too long. He comes in whenever he gets ready. His assistant is doing nothing but having him hire her family, and they don’t work. They go to lunch, get drunk, come back to work and do nothing. Then they want me to do my work, plus somebody else’s work. I went and told Richard Parker I don’t do that. You pay me to do my job. I do my job.

One of the attorneys who had just graduated from Florida had the audacity to come and put his pants on my phone. I politely took them and threw them in the trash. It had to be trash. So then Mr. Parker calls me into his office. I said “it had to have been trash. He put it over my phone as if he was throwing it away. I see no reason for it to have been on my phone, except if he had wanted it to go to the





trash.” Don’t stop me from doing my job, because I’m speaking up for what is right. You people are supposed to represent these people in jail. That’s why we have the problem we do. The system is just not working right and somebody needs to stand up. And my brother told me “You know you’re there for a reason, you can help people.” I said “Yeah, but in trying to help people I’m seeing all this stuff. I’ve gotta open my mouth.” I just told my brother, my younger brother the other day that’s my problem. If I see something going wrong I’ve gotta speak out against it, and I’ve got to learn to—but I can’t. I look at my parents, Carol—I mean everybody, gave up so much for people to just be treated fairly and it’s still not happening. Somebody has to say something. When I look at Carol, she’s telling me something, she’s still fighting the fight, and I’m exhausted, but she’s not. There’s just something in them.

	J:	Well what did he say when you just told him it was- P:	Uh?

	J:	It must’ve been trash? [Phone ringing]

	P:	Oh, Richard Parker? J:	Right.

	P:	Did he suspend me—he terminated me. No, no, no, no, no. No he didn’t suspend me and he didn’t terminate me. He moved me back down to reception. Oh, and – this is why I filed against him too but—my mom and my uncle got sick and I couldn’t follow up on that one. A White secretary noticed all the White clients, all the Black clients she threw each notice into the trash, and that meant they ended





up with a capias. They had a warrant issued because they failed to appear, and do you know he didn’t do anything to her? So of course—I don’t know if I sent him a letter or went in and discussed—I think I just discussed it with him the fact that the treatment was unfair. I just ended up resigning due to hostile working conditions. I just could not longer stay here. So I left there. It makes it kind of hard to get a good job.

[Laughter]



	P:	I got these little jobs here and there, and I told my brother I fight city, county, it doesn’t matter. I was trying to think of a way to send a letter to the Washington Post to see if they would print that. ‘Cause sometimes you feel like you have to get it off your chest; things you need to say, wanna say. Anytime something happens I’m going to see the attorney general, ‘cause when I have issues with the Gainesville Police Department and the way they were—like I tell people with our crime watch over here, I tell the officers, I have no problem with you making arrests, it’s the way you do it. You don’t have to throw somebody down to the ground; especially when they’ve stopped. Why throw them to the ground and handcuff them? So I’ve written and had investigations done about the treatment of Black people in Gainesville by GPD. I’m thinking I may have to now do one for ASO. People will call me and tell me everything that’s going on in the neighborhood and I just try to contact somebody to help us with the situations. ‘Cause they know when you go local, it’s just not going to work. I actually had some people came from Ocala, and it really surprised me. I had to call my mom. They actually came from Ocala because they heard that I would help them with





their problem and it was a racial issue, and I’m like “okay”. How would you know about me in Ocala? I don’t know people in Ocala. Things just went that way.

	J:	What was that?



	P:	Hmm?



	J:	What was that incident about?



	P:	It depends on who, I can’t remember, I just see the people in that truck, pulling up that day, looking for me. The NAACP would no really do anything to help any individual if they’re not a member, which I think is wrong, but that’s their policy so you can’t get help from the NAACP, a lot of people would come to me and ask for help. I’ve been blessed to also encounter people who helped me to help people. Attorneys—it’s just so good; almost in every area. Okay.

	J:	Like who’s helped you? Who has offered their help to you?



		P:	Attorneys, professors…	[22:38 inaudible]   I have people in different places, and all they do is call and they’ll say, okay, school board people there, just all over and it’s good. I really need the attorneys, ‘cause a lot of people have legal issues. This lady brought me her stuff from her brother who is in Texas, and I told her, I said I’ve dealt with Texas cases once before but Texas’ law is totally different from Florida law. I said, what your brother wants you to do, you can’t do because you don’t have power of attorney. See that’s really all they want is for me to read that, if I have a legal question, I’ll call any attorney and they’ll tell me, or I’ll e-mail them, but anyway. Texas law is totally different from Florida law, so I told her, all I can do is read what he has and I’ll see what you need to do. I tried to tell her if he hadn’t have known right now, and you can’t do a thing because





you don’t have power of attorney. You can’t sign his name and a lot of people in prison, he’s in prison, they try—they become jailhouse lawyers. He’s trying to file a motion, if he wants to file it pro-se he has to sign it, she cannot sign it. I know, and that’s what I tell a lot of people, too. I had some people, their son was in trouble and I said, let me tell you something, you know your son is innocent, you need to go mortgage your home, whatever it takes but to save you child, because your child does not need a record, if you want your child to go somewhere in life, you need to do what you can to fight for him and a lot of people don’t do that. They figure, oh well he’ll have to get a public defender, that’s the worst thing you could ever do. I know, I know a couple of public defenders now who are really good, and they work very hard. That’s all it took.

Stacy Scott is the intern and she is running, and she was there when I worked for the public defense office. She left the state attorney’s office and came over, and she worked in domestic. She worked in domestic over at the state attorney’s office. Then she came on the other side, so—but she worked, she worked hard. See I respect and appreciate people like that. I wish I had a medical connection that would be great. Now I have someone who can help me with VA paperwork, ‘cause I have people who come—I have been trying to help this man for almost, five, six years. He retired from the railroad and for some reason his social security and railroad retirement becomes one check and they just said that’s the way it is, and I just can’t get them to change it for you. So it makes it harder for him to live. People just want to live comfortably and it’s just not getting any better. I need a lot of people who can help with different things.





	J:	Do you think it would be okay if you could give me some of their names, or you could…? I understand.

	P:	Okay, Glenn Holmes, Glenn Shane Holmes, that’s my VA person. Victor Hayes, not he’s like my attorney on record, that’s my attorney. I used to have Matt Wells, he’s down south somewhere, Harris Moore, I need to pick up the phone and call them. I won’t give you my city people, because they’re still working. My school board people still working, but I know Victor and those were all mine. I think, it will come to me later. Oh, Aaron Green, he was an attorney and he was on the city commission and he taught school, but he’s highly educated, I mean, intelligent man. I’ll call him and he’ll give me some good advice, too on things to do, he’s really good. He—I’m trying to think if he was the first—I don’t think Aaron was married. I’m trying to figure out how they did it—he nabbed the first city commission, that city commission. I can’t remember.   [00:28:53

	inaudible]  very intelligent person. I was telling someone, Cliff Sterns doesn’t know me from Adam, but I can appreciate him. I started with him	[00:29:24 inaudible]_when I had the issue with Carwell with his railroad retirement and social security, because I’m trying to argue this with the government, this is not right, why are you sending his social security to railroad retirement or vice versa? Anytime I had written Cliff Sterns…he has responded with information to at least send me in another direction that I may try to get some help   [00:29:59 inaudible]_ , never. Sometimes it’s okay to cross party lines. I don’t care as long as they help the people.





	J:	Back to the incidents with the police. Do you, what other kinds of incidents have you seen or heard about?

	P:	I’ve had my cousin—Oh I’ve had one officer, my daughter was coming home, I finished the way, and she pulls up in front of the house. This police car with its lights flashing pulls up behind, he jumps out with his hand on his gun, I ran out there, oh no dear, what is your problem? Can I get—I said who do you think you’re talking to? You have me confused. She made too many turns, even if she had to make turns to get home…they have stopped my cousin, he has come over, his mom’s house is right around the corner. Sometimes I told him bring me some cigarettes on your way wherever, because he works at Dr. Chave, and he lives in Fort White, they’ve stopped here, they’ve arrested him, they stopped him one night because they claim he had—they’re behind him—he had crack in the windshield. They arrested him because he was at the park. He called me to tell me, I was seeing about my mom that night. I was on the phone and I called the lieutenant—he stays in the light because I get on him—but I told him, I said listen, my cousin has been arrested, he’s asthmatic, he’s very sick. They need to make sure he gets his medication. I’m not saying release him now, but they need to get his medication. I’ll deal with the other situation later. He said, well, we’ll make sure—I said, well his brother is going to be bringing him his medicine, so they allowed that. My brother was living on our cousin’s property in Waldo, a hundred and eleven acres. People like to hunt. Someone there from the sheriff department, state attorney’s office, an attorney, someone from the fire department, all White on the property hunting. They were shooting afar. [phone





		rings] My brother went out and told them to stop shooting on the property. They pulled guns on him and it just so happened, one of his neighbors came up, saved his life, but they arrested my brother. His wife called me after that at Waldo and as I was going, I saw the deputy and my brother was in the back of the car, so I turned around and followed them to the jail. I was really upset, especially when he got out and his back, the middle of his back was completely wet. I’m going, did they do anything to you? Did they do—just let me know—did they do anything? I’m not telling, I’m not—I said okay. I get back home, I get on the phone and I call the mayor. I said, Matt, they’ve got my brother this is what happened, dah-dah-da-dah. Matt, I knew Matt from teaching from the phone company, his wife June, they actually bought me that ashtray when my baby was first born, June was right there—I mean they were just so good to me and my daughter but when I called Matt about 	[00:34:14 inaudible]	oh and I called the judge, my brother was out. I told him, I’m not standing for this, they pulled guns on him and it actually made the news. I found part of the article a few weeks back, my mom had saved it. He could’ve been dead. He didn’t think that had to happen. If his neighbor had not come up, they could’ve shot him and claim self-defense. Stuff like is just bad, even—you know they had this policy where they would just stop people for walking on the wrong side of the road, they started it over here—well actually more on Fifth Avenue that I was told, and when they started over here, I told the officers, I said let me tell you one thing, when you put more sidewalks over here, then you can stop people about walking in the street. Other than that, like walking on the wrong side of the road, that’s a bunch





of crap. That’s harassment. That’s stupid. Anything to intimidate people, they do a lot of stupid stuff. They’re stopping people because of the middle thing around their tag. Any excuse to stop a Black person they’re using it. This is recent stuff, nothing has changed, and you would think, it’s these young officers, young just getting on the force, gung-ho, and that’s why I tell them, don’t come over here thinking you’re gonna violate someone’s civil rights. Not while I’m around. My friend I had to—not that friend—a friend who was an attorney—we were gonna make cards to pass out to people, your constitutional rights when you are stopped by a police officer, so you will know what you can and cannot do, just like New Year’s. I tell people when you get a job, know your policy and procedures. As long as you know what’s written, you know what they can do, and what you can do, you know what they cannot do and what you cannot do. That’s all you need to do, read.

	J:	Just to clarify, the policemen in Waldo were on your brother’s property? P:	Uh-huh.

	J:	When that was happening?



	P:	Uh-huh. In Waldo, uh-huh. Yeah, and there was one in Waldo, P.D. officers, too.



That’s been a while back, but still, it’s still happening, it doesn’t change.



	J:	You’ve worked with voter registration and education drives before, can you tell me about some of your work with those?

	P:	The voter registration drives are just plain and simple. You go into different areas—actually, I still like the way Carol, my mom, Ms. Pearl, the way they did it, they had to do it in the dark of night, but we can just sit out and do it anywhere





now. We’ve done some in—oh god I’m trying to think, we had some certain events where we would do the voter registration drive. What I do personally is, I keep—I used to, because I don’t do it now, what I’m trying to do now is have the civil rights restored, so I’m getting information together ‘cause a lot of people have approached me about in that way, because I even I talked to Pam, I thought she had a packet, but she really didn’t. Just one sheet of paper that the supervisor would _[00:38:41 inaudible]_. It was just signing people up and I would keep my information if I knew someone turned eighteen, I would just sit down, fill it out, so aside from doing it at different events, I did it, I took it upon myself wherever I would go, and usually carry stuff, that’s why I have to have a big purse. I carry a lot of stuff with me and I could just sign them up, but the people have been calling me and I still think I may need to be updated on the voter registration issue, because they have a new method or something they were saying. The only thing I think is different is that you have to return the information within forty-eight hours, but I also know I need to get people to go back in and re-do their signature card, that’s one of the problems, too, if your signature has changed…you’re not really going to be—like we did petitions. If that signature does not match what they have on their system, it won’t count. I don’t know, and I know there’s a lot of senior citizens that need to change theirs, and that’s gonna be a hassle. That’s something I think for AA’s and NAACP should be working on, I probably have to talk to Rodney and Evelyn about it, which they may or may not do, but it helps, and we need to make sure people can vote. Right now, I just want to concentrate on having people’s civil rights





restored, I don’t like Corinne Brown because she had a down meeting and this meant that I’ve been asked about his civil rights being restored. He said he’s not able to get a job, so how can he get his civil rights restored. She said, why don’t you just go cut lawns? I looked at her, and from that day on, she’ll never get my vote, never. This man is asking you for some information, and you couldn’t even say call my office and I’ll have it sent to you or something. Go cut lawns. A lot of people are doing that, a lot of people are going into lawn maintenance business. I wanna help people to do that.

	J:	Can you—?



	P:	Oh, this is one thing I stopped it, because we were overlooking—if you have been charged with a felony, and not found guilty of that felony, you can still vote. If you are in jail, you can still vote. One particular year I was doing the get out to vote campaign and I don’t know whose campaign it was, but we concentrated on that particular vote, and at that time I think we may have had about three- hundred people in jail who were able to vote. That was a plus. I felt good about that one, nobody had thought about that.

	J:	Can you elaborate more by what you mean of restoring the Civil Rights? P:	Hmm? The what?

	J:	Restoring the civil rights?



	P:	Really, I think it’s a two-tier thing. First of all, I have to look at a person’s criminal record, because you can either—they have to apply for clemency, but the record, their criminal record I believe, if it’s too intense—I don’t know about clemency.

We’ll have to have the clemency to have them to be able to vote. And I don’t





know if clemency—it’s cause I haven’t gone through the packet yet, I’m putting everything together. I don’t know if clemency seals the record, and I know if you want your record sealed you can’t have but one felony conviction. I don’t know if clemency is just gonna give them the right to vote or what, and I haven’t gone through with it, but I gotta go through everything with an attorney first so they can help me understand it. I know the forms are simple information that I’ll have to provide, but I just don’t know about the criminal history part. What was thought then, and I know that all that may be included in the instruction, but if they would seal the records, then, would they have to pay? I know that when you take stuff to court you gotta pay filing fees. All that is something that I can’t work on until I finish with these two campaigns but I want people to be able to at least, if we can get that record sealed they might be able to compete for a better job. Although it’s bad out there, but still, give them the opportunity. I have a cousin who has been in prison since 1972. My uncle, before he died, made me promise I would try to get him out of prison. He was on death row; they took him off death row. He and this boy—this is all I knew growing up—he and this boy killed a person. They were high, okay, that’s all I knew; they had killed a person. I’ve never been to a prison never wanted to go to a prison, but when my mother kept bugging me about it, okay, okay. I went to—what is that place? Lake Butler. I just don’t like going to prisons, but I went in determined, “okay I’m gonna go and do this.” My cousin, tried to think he’s my driver, took me. I went in, sat down, talked to him, and he told me what they did. When he told me I sort of wished he had not told me, because my thing is, if you all did—they were getting high. I think they did





LSD and something else and something else. They went to this minute mart to rob this minute mart and shot the person. Then they went somewhere else, took somebody’s car, shot that man, put him in the trunk, and I’m looking, okay. This is your family and my mom raised this boy. Okay. I said, all right, let me—I said, when you come out for parole, all I can do is speak on your behalf, and see if they will let you out—go. I write him letters and got a little feedback, but still nothing. In 2010, he had to go back to Lake Butler for surgery, and…we went up to see him again. He was talking about how things had changed, they were looking at the cars, they were looking—everything is just so different. You’ve been in prison all your life, since 1972. There are a lot of changes. What would he do? He works, but he said—he wrote me a letter; he got upset because they wanted him to be a houseboy. He didn’t want to clean houses at the…whatever the person is over there, they have a superintendent. At his house, he didn’t want to do that, he wanted me to call somebody and write somebody to tell them to put him somewhere else. I’m thinking, you need to be thankful; I don’t have money to change your prison, and they have to pay for everything. I think that’s wrong, too. At the jail they have to pay—this boy sent me a letter, they have to pay to pay five dollars for a Tylenol at the Alachua County Jail. Five dollars for a Tylenol, I don’t think they should do that.

	J:	For one dose?



	P:	Uh-huh. I don’t think that’s fair. You put them there, now you want to make them—they can’t pay. That’s a burden on the family. The family has no control of that person. Like with my cousin who is in prison now, when his family left, he





went with his mother to St. Pete. That’s where everything started. I can’t afford to help him. Sometimes I have everybody just give whatever they can and I send it to him, but I can’t support you in that prison. Especially when you were doing something you should not have been doing. I thought about it, well really he’s been in a long time, so he’s gotta pay for it, but to take two lives, I don’t know. It wasn’t planned, pre-meditated is more of a sin. It’s in the scripture. The first one I think was an accident I can only assume the second one was, too. I just don’t know. Drugs are just a tool, people don’t see drugs, it’s just a tool, and it holds people back and really messes up their minds. They just don’t function right.

J:   Maybe to move on to a little bit of a lighter note. I guess what do you think about the Depot Park that they are working on? I know there’s kind of been a history of the progress of that coming into fruition.

	P:	Well when they first came up with the idea, see this is what bothers me about the city, and…board members, I’ll put it like that. I have no tact. [Laughter] They presented to us, the citizens in this particular neighborhood, the idea of once we start opening Depot Park, the buildings would be available to anybody in this neighborhood. Anybody who wanted any small minority businesses that wanted to use that space—they were supposed to have a little bit of space for the teens. Everything, they always come up with things that are supposed to appease us, and once the project goes underway they make their changes. I’ve written about this before, that tax increment money that is supposed to be trickling back into this community is not trickling back into this community. It’s trickling other places. We don’t see any progress over here. We spent –we got a grant from the





university, we did. We gave the city two thousand dollars, just so we can have trashcans permanently placed in our neighborhood. They claimed they couldn’t find our two thousand dollars and we don’t have our trashcans. They can’t do stuff over here for improvement. We are trying to help ourselves now they can’t find our two thousand dollars. But the Depot Park is not going to be for us. We won’t be able to enjoy the Depot Park. When they came up with the idea of putting the Cave Museum in the Depot Park—oh, no, no, no, no, no you tell Ken McGer’s wife, to take the Cave Museum somewhere else. I don’t care if it’s a children’s museum, it’s not going to be for us. Take it somewhere else. They still have it on Main Street and I’m, sure that’s a temporary place. They’re waiting to put it over here, and when they put it over there, they’ll be hearing from me once again, because it’s never what we want. “You’re always in agreement,” okay, okay, okay, okay, and when push comes to shove, they do what they want to do, not what we say we want. It just bugs me.

	P:	They want to get rid of Portis [Clinton Portis High School], they do. It’s been in the making for a long time. They want to bring Main Street and the University together. Once they got rid of AGH, I just knew it was a matter of time. They’ve only fixed one street over here and that’s Third Street, one. Where’s the rest of the tax increment money? They always talk about the development on the East side but never about the development over here. They threw those houses up; they wanted to put apartments. It’s in our way. They’re desperately trying to make this into a student area. That’s why they put that darn shipping container house over there; I cannot stand that thing. It is an eye sore and they never





should have allowed it. I called them on it and I’m gonna call them on it again, because I’m gonna to write someone else about what happened, because it’s not right. It’s not. If he received money from the city to build that thing, then they’re in trouble, because they did not even come to us before they had him bring it up. I don’t even know what kind of stuff was shipped in there—chemicals. They said chemicals were usually in those shipping containers houses. I didn’t see them treat it. It’s a rusted, old house. I mean tin—it’s not a house—rusted tin of shipping container, and three stories at that. Why on earth fit three stories on it? He didn’t wanna fit in. I just hate it. Not progress. I started my petition and didn’t have time to finish it. There’s no way. What he did when he was supposed to have his house warming; he went and painted just a small portion of it. That was months ago. And you know he hasn’t completed painting it?

	J:	So it’s still unfinished?



	P:	Uh-huh. Code enforcement, that’s another thing, I called two attorneys because I do want to sue the city. Codes enforcement, and well I have several families who were with me, and if I can get it going. Codes came, every absentee landlord that’s White, their homes are still standing. Every Black absentee landlord, they were made to tear their structures down. Now don’t you know that’s discrimination? When Todd had that last house torn down he did not step foot back over here to not even one of our meetings. Granted he wasn’t getting paid for overtime. People, look at the whole picture. This man deliberately, I took them to court, because it was discrimination. I took him to court because I ended up having to donate my Volvo. I wasn’t working, my mom was sick; I had to leave





her at the hospital to go to court. This is how serious I was. They wanted me to either put it in the garage, put it under a carport—my Volvo—but I wanted them to tell me how many houses in this neighborhood had garages. After I took this to court, after that you see they started building houses with garages. There’s no house over here with a garage. Three have carports and my uncle built those. So when you try to enforce a law that’s against the way things are, the norm, then you are wrong. All I wanted him to know—he was just deliberately harassing me and trying to intimidate me, because he didn’t like the way I talked to him at the meeting. My question to him was, why are you doing that? Why are you bothering them? Why are you doing that? Who told you? Ms. Katherine, the city cleaned her property, cleaned after—Ms. Katherine died, her daughter died, so the grandchildren were heirs to that property. They city cleaned and cleaned and cleaned and cleaned, they didn’t pay it? The city got that property. That’s where that man put that shipping container house. See, that’s what they do. Some oriental people own that property there, the city hadn’t taken that. You see what I’m saying? It’s discrimination. Hold on a minute.

	J:	So the city took things of Miss Katherine’s? P:	Uh-huh.

	J:	Miss Katherine’s house—?



	P:	Her property. Where the shipping container house is, that was Ms. Katherine’s.



Ms. Catherine, did she go to our church? Yes, she was a member of our church—oh I forgot to ask those women. I knew Ms. Katherine since I was a child, and when she passed, her daughter was still living then her daughter





passed and then the grandchildren got it, because you know, children fight over stuff, but anyway, the city ended up with it.

	J:	How did that happen?



	P:	You know when they find them, when they clean the property off, they charged them for cleaning the property, and if they don’t pay, then they default. It’s just like when they tore my uncle’s house down, my cousin made a payment—I think it’s like five thousand dollars; four or five thousand dollars is what they charged to tear it down. So they are paying for the city to tear their dad’s house down, and if they don’t pay then it belongs to the city by default, uh-huh.

	J:	Then this man—I forgot what his name was. He put up the shipping container house.

	P:	Yeah, no, no. I don’t try to remember his name, I disregard him, he’s a non- person to me. Going through my mother’s stuff, I told my brother, my mom and dad owned property on Sixth Street where the little pond is and—hold on a second. Oh, our house was on Sixth Street, Sixth and Fifth Avenue, and the city went to buy the property and they did. This was in…_[1:02:35 inaudible]_.

Anyway, I found the papers, they paid my mother ten thousand dollars. Ten! I said, Lord had I seen this thing. Ten thousand dollars, that’s all. When they wanted to build Porters Oaks, the people that lived in those houses were moved out, supposedly with enough money to help them relocate. They didn’t have enough money for a month. Although they were renting, they still should’ve been treated fairly. They had nowhere to be. Now that’s what I try to tell people here in Porters now. All I find in Porters is that your property value is worth enough for





you when the time comes, that you will be able to get enough money to go and live somewhere else, to be able to buy you a home somewhere else. My brother helped me sort of come up with a deal for this senior citizen who lived across the track, the city wanted her property. We told her, they want your property, you own this. They want it, so you want to be able to get what you need to live. That’s a mortgage free home, because you have a mortgage free home; four bedrooms, equal to what you had.

	J:	What did you mean when you said that the Depot Park in the museum?



Specifically was it for you guys?



	P:	For—?



	J:	For your community?



	P:	Uh-huh, it won’t be. Ken McGerns’ wife wants to put a children’s museum and I really don’t know the crust of what the children’s museum is going to consist of. You see, our children need to be reminded of their heritage, number one. That may do something to help them, but…it’s something I just don’t think we’re going to benefit from. If they want to put an African American History—well just include everything, you know I’m saying? Just include all the history in it, then perhaps. Unh-uh, I don’t see that coming from the McGerns. I can’t even think of her name. [Laughter]

	J:	I remember that last time we talked and a few times since then, you said something to the effect of you always try to help anyone that needs it, with whatever they need. What are you helping people with right now, or—?





	P:	Right now, I am working on a modification that I’ve been working on since 2008. I’ve gone through Countrywide and Bank of America with this family. We’ve gone through, okay you’re approved, to no word months later. We’re sending the request again for the same information, so it’s been kind of hard with them, and they’ve been in and out of the hospital. That’s the modification it’s this Texas situation which I just can’t do anything about and of course two campaigns. Let me see…just finished my church project. Oh, and another legal issue with someone in jail in Cocoa, Florida. His sister called and I need to find out what she can do with that information on him and charges have stuck. There is nothing she can do except get a new attorney. Let me see, Caldwell, that’s VA stuff, working with on his VA stuff. He is—some of the VA I guess policies I’m not quite clear on because I thought if they went to the VA hospital all their services would be free, but they’re not. He’s having to pay for some of his services and his medication as well as my brother, but thank God I found someone who can help me with the VA. We just finished filing for VA benefits for someone—and I’m looking for a job. [Laughter] I’m trying to help myself.

	J:	What was your church project that you just finished?



	P:	We had homecoming, so I wanted to show them a part of the beginning. My church, little Mount Olive, I remember my church being just, I guess the, not really the patterns, but whenever we had these mass marches, we began from the church. Everything, I mean they make their speeches there, we started from the church and take off whatever direction and—but that’s where it all started.

Values taught in our church, I wanted people to just see the people who brought





us to where we are today, and I try to do it in the photos from old to present. I did the photo presentation part.

	J:	You actually mentioned, last time we talked about, how a relative of yours who founded that church.

	P:	My great-great uncle. I always get them confused, it was an uncle. I told you he was my cousin, I was trying to remember his name. It was on Simmons side— my mother’s mother was a Simmons, so it was that side of her family. I actually was talking to someone. I thought I was talking to the mayor of Waldo, but turns out I wasn’t, but he said he had my mother’s Bible, somebody brought my mother’s Bible to him. I said, are you sure? Do you have any pieces of paper in there with scriptures and so forth? Writings? He said yes, and it has Lucille Perkins and I said well that’s my mother. That might be the Bible I need with the names in it, but oh my God. He said he knew my brother and I told my brother I wanted him to go get it, but he won’t go get it. Somebody’s gonna have to go get it, but I’m going to have to find out who I was really talking to. I told him, I must’ve been talking to an angel. I said, Mr. Mayor, he said, yes [Laughter] I said Lord help me, I think I’m doing too much.

	J:	What is it—? Oh sorry.



	P:	No, go ahead. Is this—? Go ahead.



	J:	Okay. What keeps you motivated in all of this work that you do?



	P:	I don’t know. I really don’t. I think, I get so tired, but then I’ll get a phone call and someone will say, Gladys, can you help me with this, and I said yes, just come on over at such and such a time and then I’m up and running. I thought about it





yesterday, the more things I’m doing, the more energy I seem to have. If I’m doing two or three things a time—I’m getting old, my mind is just like blegh, so I shouldn’t be doing two or three things at one time. I put something down and can’t go back to it. It just talks me back to my mom because she said, Gladys if you stop me, I’ll die, but I know if I stop I won’t die, but I know I don’t have any peace anyway. My phone is going to ring all day up until ten at night, and its different things, people needing this—oh, I have a friend, her daughter is graduating from Florida State, she needs an internship, I’m trying to help her get an internship, just a lot of things. People just need, and they call. [Laughter] My phone was out of service and I decided to let it stay out of service for a few days so I could have some quiet time, nothing but static, and I enjoyed it, but then I started to worry if everybody’s okay, I can’t talk to this person. [Laughter] It must be my daughter. My mother was the matriarch and I just think about her sometimes, but I think about my family and I know how she loved all of us, my cousins, everybody, her cousins and sometimes I get that feeling that I know she must have had when I just look at my family. You just have that overwhelming feeling of love and…I don’t know, I guess pride, I don’t know, you just look at them and just thankful that they’ve mature, some of them have matured, they’ve grown into great, great, good people. It just makes you feel good that—and nobody’s perfect, you have some good ones and you have some bad ones but just thank God we’re just still—my nephew Daryl, I’ll call him when I need to go see about the sick and have him go with me to pray, he’ll take me. See, I have different people for different things. My cousin Charlie Frank takes me for other





stuff, political stuff, but Daryl, when I need to go see about the sick, he’s there. My nephew Pete is a deputy, if I need him to check something out, he’ll do that, so I’m just proud of him. My nephew Richard is the last Perkins male child. He was in London working. He’s the last male child—Perkins child, so I have to hold him close to me. [Laughter] That’s Richard back there. Little skinny thing. My family gives me joy, that little thing in there took from his mama.

	J:	What’s his name again?



	P:	Omarion. That’s his great-grandmother, and my mama raised her and her brother. I really don’t know what keeps me motivated.

	J:	Well, you were saying just now about how your family is important to you, which relationships have been the most important to you throughout your life?

	P:	All my life? I guess my mother. It was just a personal thing that I put on myself. I felt like I owed her so much growing up when I was always sick and sometimes she’d just come and put her hand on my forehead and it was like I was healed, I started feeling better, or I could go to sleep and all the aches and pains would just go away. Somehow she’d just sit and I’ll wake up she’s just wiping me down from a bad fever and the way I grew up, I never thought there was anything wrong with, a lot of people talk about how—even my cousin Ervin—Lucille will never let her go off the court. I did on occasion to go over to see my uncle or something, no there were certain things I just wasn’t allowed to do and I understand more and more that was just her way. My mother grew up in Minneola, and of course they had their ways about a lot of things. My mother grew up when—and she says, “I remember when we were children, we drank





water out of the horse’s footprint in Minneola.” Just all the things she would tell me about in the country and how they grew up. I told her, I would be so upset with her. My brother bought her a two story house, everything, every nook and cranny was covered with stuff. I said, “Momma, let me just throw some of this stuff away.” She said, you never know who might need it. I said, okay, I organized her junk. I’m organizing her junk and my junk. When I lost her, and I started going through her—I was able to help five families in need, all of a sudden people were calling me because this person needed a bed, this person needed some curtains and pots and pans and this and—five families with what she had saved. She said you never know who might need it. She was just a wonder to me, and that first—when I was—I guess in junior high, I wasn’t close to her because I didn’t like the way she treated my dad, I was closer to my dad at that time. I just didn’t like it. She was always fussing at him. “You don’t do this, do that.” [Laughter] She may have started before junior high, too, but we were not close, we’d talk and stuff, she was still always in, I loved her to death being there for me, just didn’t like the way she treated my daddy. We talked about it, I guess a few years before she passed. We were able to talk about a lot of things and I told her, I said “Momma, I really didn’t like the way you treated daddy, that’s my daddy.” She said, I didn’t know, I said, “Yes ma’am.” “Daah!” I said, “That’s right, you’re done.” Unh-uh. I was glad that we had the opportunity to spend that time together, when I was older and perhaps a little wiser, and then had the opportunity to just get a little knowledge and wisdom from her, just help. I always thought she was awesome, always. I remember when I was young, this man was





running by our house. People standing—it was almost like a parade, it was dark. Man’s head was on fire, people standing and looking. My mom ran in the house, and she over the motherboard and we have these basins for communion. She had gone and got some water and by the time the man got to our house, she was there with the water and the pan and she stopped and just doused his head and everybody else was just standing up looking. You look at your mom, oh she is just so amazing, the thing that she does—and loved to cook for everybody, and I hate to cook. Always feeding people.

	J:	I guess if we wanna wrap up the interview, is there anything else you’d like to talk about, maybe something came to mind while we’ve been talking that we didn’t really get into?

	P:	No. I can’t think of anything really. It’s just so much. J:	Well thank you for inviting me into your home.

	P:	Thank you.



	J:	Thank you for letting me talk to you. P:	Okay.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Stevie Hazen, Toni-Lee Maitland, and Rachel Csutoros, April 2014 Audit edited by:	Anna Jimenez, May 2014

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 22, 2019