AAHP 060B; Dupree; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 060B Sherry Sherrod Dupree African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Max Palent on July 28, 2011 1 hour, 22 minutes | 43 pages



Abstract: Sherry Sherrod Dupree discusses growing up in Johnston County, North Carolina, including her parents’ occupations and the things they did to raise their family together. Her father was a railroad porter, and she describes some of the history of Black railroad porters as well. Mrs. Dupree also describes her experiences with higher education, acquiring two masters degrees, and she relates how she met her husband and how she ended up working at the University of Florida. She describes some dramatic moments from working at Smathers Library in the 1980s, including a shooting that took place involving a disgruntled employee. She also describes her career since that time, and some of the projects she has worked on.





Keywords: [African American History; Johnston County, North Carolina; University of Florida; Smathers Library]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 060B

Interviewee: Sherry Dupree Interviewer: Max Palent Date: July 28, 2011



	P:	Today is Thursday July 28th, 2011. I am in Gainesville, Florida. My name is Max Palent. And as representative of the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, I’m here today with Ms. Sherry Dupree. And today I will be interviewing her on a manner of things and subjects. And I’m happy to have you with me.

	D:	Okay. Good day to you Max.



	P:	First I’d like to ask you some really simple questions. For instance, where were you born?

	D:	I was in Raleigh, North Carolina November 25th, 1946. P:	And how long did you spend in North Carolina?

	D:	Well I was raised in North Carolina. I was born in Raleigh at St. Agnes Hospital. But I was raised in Johnston County. And Johnston County is adjacent to Wake County. Wake County is where Raleigh is located. My home was listed as Selma—S-E-L-M-A—North Carolina. I went to school in Clayton, which was sixteen miles from Selma, cause my mother taught school. So I went to school in Clayton. But we lived in Selma. Right outside of our house there was this Black school, but I didn’t go to school there. I went to school with my mom all the years.

	P:	What was your early life like, going to school—well you said you didn’t go to the Black school. Can you elaborate on that?

	D:	Yeah, I went to the Black school in Clayton. P:	Oh, in Clayton.

	D:	It was segregation. It was during the time when I went to school. So it didn’t matter. The one in Selma was right across the street from me. And then in





Clayton, from my grandmother’s house, was a Black school. My grandmother was a teacher also. So it goes back in the family.

	P:	True. True. So when did you come upon the idea that you wanted to become a librarian?

	D:	That happened when I was a child. My daddy was a farmer and he was also a porter on the train. And he had to dacker out in the country. My mother’s friend, White lady, was a teacher in Selma. And of course the farm was in Selma, out in the country. And I wanted to be able to get books from the library as a child. We could not go to the public library in the summertime in Selma. It was segregated. So my mother worked out a deal with a White friend of hers that taught school.

And she would get the books from the public library, take them to the farm, and we had a little cubby out there. She would put the books in the cubby and leave them. My daddy would bring the books home and we would read the books and then we’d put them back in the cubby. And he’d tell everyone to stop by and pick them up. And that’s how we got books from the White library in the summer. That probably started when I was about, say, five or six years old. And then that went all the way through to the time I went to college. We still got books that way. And momma would leave the list there of what we needed and she’d bring the books. And so I said, “Now we can’t get books other than this. We need to have our own library. We need to have our own facility.” And of course we had a library at the school. But it would be closed in the summer. It would be open nine months and then closed in the summer months. So that’s how we got books in the summer months. Other than what we would buy. And to me, it was just so important that I





could be able to get what I needed when I needed it. And other people should be able to do the same. So I became involved as they call packrat. And then my mom would—we traveled every summer, because my daddy worked the railroad, we got a two week pass. So that’s how I got to go to the World’s Fair and other places. And we would buy as many books and materials as possible. Momma would be loaded mailing stuff back for the schools. And so I could see the value of materials and reading. I had a newspaper route. [Laughter] That was the north of Gerald and Guy. North of Virginia, Gerald and Guy. Even though we lived in North Carolina, they would ship me my shipment every week. And we gave the papers out on Thursday. And so I had a paper route and that encouraged me to want to read and know about what was going on in the communities and so forth. So I went the paper route and then they be getting materials in the summer.

Then my aunts and uncles were all teachers, so they were always bringing us stuff here and there. It just encouraged us to—it encouraged me to want to be a librarian.

	P:	Okay. You mentioned your father was a railroad porter. Do you know if he was involved with their movement for unionization and workers’ rights?

	D:	Yes. Not him directly. His side of the family are all railroad people. My uncles, great-uncles, his uncles before him, they were all railroad men. Matthew Lewis, who was his uncle, was a principal of a school. And he gave up his principalship to work on the railroad. Because he made much more money on the railroads sorting mail. He was one of the first Black sorters of mail on the train. Course they had White people there and he was the Black one, cause he could read well





and so forth. So he sorted mail and that was long before I was born. So family was always involved. I knew about the Chicago. I knew about A. Phillip Randolph. Cause they came home with them. They would be talking about it. My uncles, and they’d sit out in the yard and talk railroad talk and we’d be out there listening. And then I had a couple of relatives who passed for White. We just talked about that. And he was above the Mason Dixon line. And then from Washington D.C. he went all the way up into Canada. Well, he wouldn’t come south often, but when we went north in the summer, he always looked out for us on the train. So we didn’t have to sit in the Black section. We could go to the restaurant. We couldn’t go to the restaurants ordinarily. Cause once you got above the Mason Dixon line, you could. And then he would get a sleeper-car for us. We’d never been in a sleeper-car before. Blacks couldn’t ride the sleeper cars down south. So we got to do a lot of things. Going up into Canada, Niagara Falls, and places like that, when we couldn’t have gone otherwise. So we brought that history back. And we would share it in school when we came back and buy as many booklets and pamphlets to talk about these things and share our history. So travel was important. And we were able to travel through daddy.

	P:	That’s wonderful. Your later education, like high school and college, can you tell me a little bit about those experiences?

	D:	High school we went to Cooper High School. Elementary was Cooper. Middle school was Copper. And high school was Cooper. It was named for William Cooper. He was out of North Carolina, but he went to Hampton. Hampton Institute. And so he brought his learning back to North Carolina and of course the





school was named for him. And elementary school, it was okay. Everything went fine. I went to school when I was five—I should tell you that. I didn’t want until I was six because I was a grade ahead. I finished high school when I was sixteen. So that was because education was stressed in the family early. And that helped me to get through and finish high school early. Middle school was regular. High school, I was in the band. I played piano for the choirs and had a good teacher. I even learned to do some concert piano playing. I played for graduations, all those kind of activities. Active in the band all the time. I was in the choir. We cut an album in—let’s see. What year was that? In the early [19]60s. We went out to Tennessee and cut our first record album. And it was a gospel music album. I did two solos on that. So I enjoyed high school. It was a lot for me. I graduated third in my class. My dad was angry, cause I should have been number one. They would not give me the higher, even though my grades were higher. They said, “Your parents can send you to school. So therefore the money that we have, we’re gonna give it to students whose parents who can’t afford to send them to school.” So they had to give them val and salutatorian in order for them to get the money. And then they made being me the third person. And my daddy was angry about that. Cause he said, “She deserved it.”

	P:	Rightfully so.



	D:	But they didn’t give it to us. [Laughter] And they had to pay my way through college. But they were more able to pay than the other two people that received it. I understood what was going on. And Mr. Canada, who was the principal, he talked to my parents about it. And we knew that’s what they were gonna do. And





he said, “That’s mainly so we can put the money in their hands.” And he said, “We’ll be looking out for you too.” And so I went to North Carolina Central in Durham and graduated from there in 1968 with my first degree in vocational home economics. I graduated from high school in 1964 and I had a very high GPA so went into college at North Carolina Central in vocational home economics. And took the sciences and the math and so forth. After I graduated in [19]68, I wasn’t able to get a job. They were hiring people to work for gas companies and so forth. The only type of job I could have gotten was been a teacher. And vocational home ec teachers didn’t change jobs very often. So I didn’t have a job. My friend told me, she said, “Okay. You graduated in May.

Come back in June and I’ll put you in the graduate program.” So I went back in June into library science graduate program. It was a one year program. It was funded by the federal government. And so in [19]69 I graduated again with my first masters in library science. And that was for K through 12. And then after I graduated from that, I wasn’t satisfied, because, again, jobs weren’t that easy to find in [19]69. So I was able to get funding to go to the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. So I left home. That’s the first time I really left North Carolina. When I got out there, I worked for a while in the computing center. Extra money. And went to school there. I started working part time and going to school part time, which I shouldn’t have done. Should have just stayed straight through. I graduated in [19]74 with a masters in academic librarianship and that’s really what opened the door for me to start doing research. That academic masters in librarianship sent me to the National Archive in Washington D.C., because at that





time Wagner was head of the National Archive. He was a graduate of the University of Michigan. So he found out that we were interested in doing research, so he had us come into the National Archive. And I got to meet people there and understand how the system worked. Had a chance to go to the Library of Congress and do some things. And so I felt I was on top of the world in the sense of getting out there and finding out how to do research. And mainly African American research was what I was interested in. So I still stayed there. In [19]75 I married Herb. I met him in Ann Arbor, cause he was in grad school there. I think it was [19]74. [19]73. I met Herb in [19]73. I wasn’t going home for Thanksgiving. [Laughter] So he invited me to go home and read a car him, because he was a dorm director and we were in his dorm. You know how you have the RAs?

	P:	Yeah, the RAs.



	D:	So he carried us home for Thanksgiving. And then that year at Christmastime I took him to North Carolina. I lived in North Carolina in Raleigh area. Selma was our home. His parents and all. So that was in [19]74. Not [19]73. [19]74 was when I took him home, cause I met him in [19]73. [19]74 he went to North Carolina and we got married in January 11th of 1975. And we still were students at University of Michigan. And then I got my specialists in 1978. I had already moved to Florida. And that is in instruction and technology. Should have gotten a doctorate, but I had some issues. In [19]77, I had my first child, Wanea. And we didn’t know it at that time, but he was autistic. And that really turned my life around. [Laughter] But anyhow, we had already moved to Florida. And we stayed here. In [19]77 when we came, I got a job at the University of Florida. I was the





first Black librarian that they had hired with a degree. So I started working there because the lady’s name was Beth Daney. Beth died in July of [19]77 and I took her position in August of [19]77. Just that fast. Because I came in, they interviewed me. They never had hired a Black person to teach, but that’s okay, they put me in the classroom. I didn’t work records for a while. I taught in the English department and sophomore-level library science courses. So that’s all I did for the first year or two. And then they wined and dined and got me working reference desk and being responsible for Italian bibliographies, things like that. So I got involved in the library. I stayed there for six years. I got tenure. I was the first one to get it. And during that time, I worked very hard. We brought in two other Black people as librarians. Pat Moran. Pat’s husband was with the athletic department at the University of Florida. She didn’t have a job, so I just happened to run across her at a party and she told me she was looking for a job and I gave her name to the library director. He called her. She got a job. Just how it worked.

	P:	Just like that?



	D:	Just like that. And then Pat and I said, “Hey, we need some more Black folks in here.” [Laughter] So we had another friend that she knew. I didn’t know her that well. And we got her in. And she did interlibrary loan. Now she’s down at Gulf Coast in Florida. She’s still working. And then Pat is in the public schools here. She should be coming out in another year or two. Because we’re about the same age range. So all of us left. [Laughter] All of us left. And then they’ve had a few other Blacks. Melody is over there now.

	P:	When you said you left, you left the University of Florida?





	D:	And went to Santa Fe. I went to Santa Fe in [19]83.



	P:	Was there any particular reason you decided to leave?



D:  Well I was raising my kids and I needed more time. They were little. I was just stressed, so I went out there. Plus I made more money. About three thousand dollars more than what I was making at UF.

	P:	Wow.



	D:	At that time. And that was pretty good. P:	That’s very significant for the time.

	D:	It was significant. So I left and went to Santa Fe. And it didn’t hurt me so far as salary and so forth. And then I had more time work with my kids and help raise my sons. Because I was having to pay out most of my money for childcare. [Laughter] I had someone to come in the house and stay with my kids. And she took care of my house. And that was nice, but then on the other hand, I needed time with them also.

	P:	Of course, yeah.



	D:	I didn’t have that time. Me and my husband were stressed over there at UF al the time. So we decided we need to put some time in raising our kids.

	P:	Understandable.



	D:	We didn’t want other people raising them. We raise them. [Laughter] So that’s why we made the changes. He left UF. He went to PK Yonge for a while. What happened with him, they closed that department. It was urban planning and something else. And monies weren’t right. They closed that department down so he had to move out. And he went to PK Yonge. They gave him a job. PK first. He





worked over there for a while. Then he went to Marion County. He took the training for a principalship. And then he became assistant principal. Then he worked his way up to principal. And now he’s project manager over one of their areas of the school system. So that’s pretty much our background. And we raised three sons. Emile, who was born in [19]77. Andres was born in [19]79. And Andrew was born in [19]82. So I had three boys.

	P:	Three boys. That’s good. [Laughter]



	D:	No girls. [Laughter] But that’s pretty much the background of the family. And we’ve been here ever since. We never left. We came to Gainesville and we lived out near the Oaks Mall on 75th for one year. And we moved in what was known as Woodgate Manor. It was brand new. So we opened up that nice three bedroom townhouse. We stayed there one year. And Herb said, “We gotta pay that kind of rent? We better buy a house.” So we started looking and this house was on the market. And we came out here and looked at it. And the lady said, “Well you gotta put some money down on it if you wanna hold it, because I’m showing it to other people.” And we went home that night and decided yeah we would. We put the down payment on it just enough to hold it, cause we didn’t have big money. And they held the house for us and we got it. And we’ve been here ever since. We’ve been here thirty-three years.

	P:	That’s incredible.



D:  Yeah. Right here. And so we had to get close to campus cause we only had one car. So Herb would ride the bicycle to campus. We were one mile from campus. And I would take the station wagon. And I’d carry the kids and they got older to





nursery during the day. And then I’d park on campus. So if he needed the car during the day, he would get it. That’s how we operated at UF. And then once he got the job down in Ocala, then he had to have a car. And then I had to have one for Santa Fe and that’s how we went to a two car family. Kept the kids. That’s what we’ve done all these years.

	P:	Driving to school and all that.



	D:	Yeah. Yeah. Andrew got in—let me see. They went to JJ Finley. That’s another reason we stayed, cause there were good schools in this area. And then they went over to Westwood for middle school. Emile graduated from Gainesville High School. My middle son, Andres, he went to school down in Ocala with his daddy. We bought him a car and he had to drive himself. He thought he was going to ride with his daddy. Daddy said, “No. Because sometimes it’s eight or nine o’clock before I get out. So you drive, take care of yourself.” So he graduated from down in Northwood—I forgot, North Central whatever it is down in Ocala.

And then Andrew graduated from PK Yonge. We tried our best to get the other two in there. But you had to put those kids in when they’re born. And so few people leave PK that we never got them in. But my youngest son did. He graduated from PK. And then from there they went on to college. Andres, Florida A&M, Tallahassee. And then Andrew is down at Valencia. He hasn’t quite finished. Valencia Community College.

	P:	In Orlando?



	D:	In Orlando. Yeah, yeah. And right now he’s working at the Apple Store, but he has insurance license and broker’s license. So he had been able to do pretty well





over the years. And then Andres works with Connections. Connections is a company that connects insurance companies in the hospitals and doctors. If you walk in there and you say, “I hurt my hand and they got to do surgery.” The doctor has to call and answer the type of surgery. They tell him how much money he can spend. What equipment will be used. All that. And then they also determine medicines. If you file to order something that’s very expensive, it goes through Connections and they determine if you’re going to get that medicine or a cheaper brand or whatever. And so that’s why it’s known as Connections. My son Andres’ been there about six years.

	P:	Oh wow.



	D:	And he likes it. But he works with drugs and prescription area is where is. And he stayed because he’s flexible. He doesn’t have family. None of my sons are married. They don’t have any kids, no outsides, none of that. So he’s been able to deal with the scheduling. Whereas so many people couldn’t when they had children and other responsibilities. They all working. So I’m happy. My oldest son has autism. He stays here with me, with Herb and I. And he does well. He works with Publix. He carries groceries, bag boy, that kind of thing. And he’s doing okay. He’s been at Santa Fe and able to function. He’s functioning quite well. I think he could function on his own if he had to. But he likes being home with us. [Laughter]

	P:	That’s good.



	D:	So that’s pretty much my family.





	P:	I wanted to ask you about, specifically, the events that transpired at Smathers Library. I believe it was nineteen eighty—I’m going to need your help on this one.

	D:	You’re talking about the David Shelley situation? P:	Yes.

	D:	Okay. I left there in 1983. And the situation occurred in May. The first week of May in 1983. David Shelley was a tech person. He wasn’t really a librarian. He was responsible for working the front desk, directing people to us, who were librarians, at the second desk. David was a White male. About two hundred and fifteen pounds or so. He had problems with his feet, so he kind of shuffled a little bit when he walked. He had a foul mouth some days. He took different types of medications and drugs and so forth. And I think some of them might even been psychedelic type stuff that caused him not to be on the same playing field every day. You had to kinda feel him out every morning to see who you were dealing with that day. But anyway, David was very disgruntled. He had asked for better conditions because of his health. He claimed that his back was hurting a lot. And I could imagine his legs. And so asked for certain types of chairs. He asked for certain types of amenities to go along with his job. David came from a well-to-do family. His people were attorneys. And he was used to getting what he wanted. And not having to cow down and have other people over him. And he let you know that too. [Laughter] He had an attitude. What we were talking about earlier.

	P:	Yes.



	D:	He had that. And our supervisor was Annette Liles. Annette Liles was head of the reference area. And of course she had him under her care, cause she had the





TAs under her too. And David had very little respect for Annette. He talked to her the kind of way he felt like it and tell about herself. He was kind of open there.

And Ms. Liles would try to get along with him and everybody kinda got out of this way and let him have his way. Cause they knew his family, his background, and all of that. And so they kind of let him have his way. And Ms. Liles would tell us, “Now just be quiet now. It’ll straighten out. David will be fine.” That’s the kind of way she would talk to us about him. But David became out of control. One day we were at work and Lynn Yi Woo, who was also a TA, was up at the front desk. And at that time we had clipping files where you’d go to the newspaper and you clip out articles and put the information on it. Then you put it into the vertical file and you would clip in areas that you felt people would need. Everything for UF was clipped. And we put in the sports or in the English department, wherever.

And so Yi Woo was up at the desk and David had a very sharp pair of scissors. And he had the newspaper laying on top of it. And Yi Woo says something to him and made him angry. So he pulled out those scissors and pointed them at her. Yi Woo was ready to go out of there. [Laughter] She was Japanese. And she started speaking in her language. We called it speaking in tongues. [Laughter] And David let her know, you don’t get close to me. So she became frightened.

And she would come to work every day, but she kept her distance from David Shelley. And we knew why, because he had threatened her. And she told Ms. Liles. They didn’t do a thing about it. It was David. It was fine. One Saturday— cause we had to work Saturdays—I was working and he was working the front desk and I worked the back desk. So patrons came in and they got kind of—they





had a fuss up there. I didn’t know what it was, so I turned around. I said, “I better go up here to the front desk. Seems kinda loud.” And David was speaking harsh to people up there. And I said, “David, we don’t do that. This is a public place.” I was trying to calm him. And he told me where to get off. Leave him alone. And the people that were up there, a couple of students, the guy said, “Oh I’m sorry.” I said, “You come on outside David. I’ll put you in order.” I said, “Oh, well I better call the police in here. I don’t know what to do.” Because I was in charge. The back person had the control. So I didn’t know quite what to do. I called my husband. I went in one of the offices and locked the door and called Herb. I said, “David’s getting out of control.” Herb said, “Call the police. That’s what campus police is for. And you get somewhere to stay in and lock the room.” So I did. I called the police and they came. And David calmed down. And we went on. Got the day finished. But I worked another Saturday and David wasn’t working the front desk. I think Lynn Yee worked the front desk that Saturday. And David decided to come in. He came in with an axe. You know what an axe is? A axe has a blade at the bottom and a long handle. You use it to cut wood.

	P:	Oh, an axe.



	D:	Axe, yeah. He came in with an axe. And he had it to the side. And he was angry.



Well I had the charge that day. And Lynn Yee saw him and Lynn Yee came to the back and told me David was dangerous. And she was speaking her tongue. She got real nervous and went in the room. I started round in, I saw that axe swinging. And he was—“Oh God let me get out of the way.” Well he wasn’t angry at me. He went to Ms. Liles door and chopped her door. Where the handle was.





He was gonna break her door down. And so I went and called the police again. And they came. Well not only did the police come. They brought his chaplain. Some man that he knew to come him down. And they talked to David. And he had axed up the door. He was twirling it, because they didn’t know what that man was gonna to do. Well, the police, again, they didn’t file charges against him.

That’s another issue. He should have been put in jail that day coming in there with an axe. And tearing down that door.

	P:	Tearing down doors, yeah.



	D:	Yes. But they didn’t. And then Ms. Liles was scared to come to work. Cause he had axed her door.

	P:	Rightfully so.



	D:	She didn’t know what David was going to do. So she couldn’t hardly talk when she came in to work. She couldn’t get herself together. So they told her she needed to be careful. Well she said, “I’m going upstairs and tell Gus Hare about David. We just got to do something because he’s just destroying this place.” Talking about tearing up her door. And so she said she went upstairs and talked to Gus Hare. And I guess she did, about how disruptive he had been and how he was causing other problems. Well Pat Moran was working there and Pat had gotten scared of him too. Cause Pat said he was dragging along here coming up here and looking down and talking to himself. She said, “Maybe he gone crazy.” Pat said, “I don’t need to be too close to anybody doing that.” Cause she had seen that before with other people. So she was not comfortable with him. Ray Jones, who was one of our senior librarians, who’s still living, Ray had a habit of





doing this. He’d be walking like this. David talked, “Why don’t you go somewhere and sit down with yourself?” Ray said, “Who are you talking to? Who are you talking to?” He said, “If you don’t sit down, I’m gonna knock you down.” Ray said, “Ooh, ooh. You talking to me honey? I’m a senior librarian. I’m a senior librarian.” David, “I don’t care who you are.” So that kind of got him on alert. Well Ray went back there and told Sherman Butler. Sherman Butler was our military librarian.

And he was also a full librarian. We had full librarians then. And he went back there and told Butler like Butler’s going to do something to help him. “David just insulted me. Just insulted me.” He was just going on like this. “And told me that I need to go sit down.” Oh he was just carrying on back there with Butler. Butler said, he just looked at Ray, “Go there, sit down, and let me think about this for a minute.” He said, “You told me to sit down too?” He said, “Yeah, sit down, sit down. So let me think about this. Where is David?” He said, “We got to find where is David.” Said, “We got to be safe in here.” And he said, “He’s in the office in there. He’s in there.” Sherman said, “Let me get something in my hand.” And I don’t know what he had. But he had something and he went up where that door was. And he said, “David. We need to talk to you out here.” He said, “You need to come out. I need to talk to you a minute.” And he came out. And when he came out, he ushered him on out the building. They went on out through the gate and went on the outside. And they had a talk out there. In the meantime, Ray was back in. He was still stressed out. And I said, “Why don’t you go get you some coffee or something?” He said, “Yeah, I think I need to.” But he was watching, making sure that he didn’t get too close to David. So David went home





that day. I don’t know what Butler said or what was done. I really don’t know. But I do know there was a guy that worked upstairs in Dr. Hare’s office. And I know Butler went up and talked to him about what was going on with David Shelley.

And he went in and talked to Ms. Liles too. He said, “Now we got to be safe here.” And said, “He is intimidating a lot of our people.” Well that didn’t go far and nothing was done. We had some people that came in the library we call the raincoat bandits. You never heard? Raincoat. When it rained, they’d come in the library with a raincoat on. We call them the raincoat bandits. And when they would come in the library, they would kind of do it with the raincoats on. They would go and sit with newspapers in front of them, supposedly reading the paper, but taking care of sexual situations. We call them the raincoat bandits. And sometimes we’d catch them in the stacks or whatever. And the raincoat bandits, we finally knew who they were, would come in and they would always go talk to David. So we figured David knew these people. They were, I guess, students, people in the community. We didn’t know them that well. So that was another issue that made us uncomfortable. When it rained, Butler said, “Sherry, it’s raining out there. Oh lord have mercy.” He said, “The bandits will be in here in a few minutes.” [Laughter] So we had the raincoat bandits to deal with too. So what we would do when they come in on the first floor, we would send them upstairs.

Or they would want to come get our newspapers and they’d mess up our newspapers. They’d take them upstairs. We’d say, “Go upstairs.” Get them away from downstairs. And sometimes David would go up and talk to the raincoat bandits. We didn’t know. And then we had one fellow that was up there working





in the stacks one day. And the raincoat bandits flashed in front of him and scared him. It was a mess going on in that library. The raincoats bandits we had to deal with. And we told the campus police. We asked for support. Never got it. Every now and then the policemen would walk through there. But they didn’t do anything. Especially when it rained. That’s when they come in there. And they would be doing these things that shouldn’t be done in public.

	P:	Deviant acts?



	D:	Yes. And so that’s one thing we had to deal with. Well David was carrying on with his foolishness downstairs. And we were trying to keep him under control. And I really would need to have Pat Moran here. She could tell you some stuff. A whole lot of stuff went on that she knew about, that I didn’t know about. I didn’t want to know all of it, because I was trying to keep myself safe. I didn’t want to get hurt. It got to the place that my husband was coming over to the library every day.

	P:	Just to check up on you?



	D:	Oh yeah. He came in there every day. I didn’t know when he was coming. Whenever between his classes or whatever. He’d just come and kinda walk around. Sometime I’d know he’s there, sometime I didn’t. But he would tell me, “I went over to the library. Suppose there was strange stuff going on over there.” And it didn’t just stay in the library. Everybody knew. Some of them would go to Library East. The east building is the older building. And that would be open for the stacks and so forth. At that time, I had an office in east building on the second floor. That was when I was teaching for a time. And then finally I moved my office over to Library West. And so that was where I was during the time of





the raincoat bandits and when David got out of control. Now, in May when this happened, I was back at the back reference desk working. And during the day when it’s very busy, they’re two librarians on the back reference desk. Two certified librarians and one on the front desk. I was on the back desk by myself. And the reason I was on back desk by myself was because there was a meeting upstairs on the second floor. And the other librarians had gone to the meeting.

So since they were upstairs in the meeting, I said, “Hey, I’ll hold the back desk.” I didn’t want to go to the meeting anyway. And then we had one person work the front desk. And I was on the back desk and I guess might have been around ten, ten thirty-ish or so at the desk back there. Somebody hollered out, “David Shelley’s in the library.” And the way they hollered it out was like there was trouble. I didn’t know. I said, “Well maybe he’s up front cutting up” like he usually does. I still didn’t leave the desk. Cause that’s where I was supposed to be.

	P:	So you thought he had like the axe again?



	D:	No, I didn’t know what he had. I thought he might have had a pair of scissors cause he had been in there with scissors before. I didn’t know. And so I went to the back office to call the front desk. I wouldn’t call it from the desk. Cause I can call from the back desk I could call the front desk. But I wouldn’t do it. I went and closed the office and called the front desk. And they were hollering up there. I knew something was going down. So I locked the door in the back where I was. And then I said—I was scared to go to the front, cause I didn’t know what was happening on the front. All I could hear was some hollering up front. And then I went around the side. I decided I better get out of here, cause he might come to





the back desk. And I was in an enclosed room. So I went around the side there and everything kind of calmed down. And I didn’t see anything. So I tell the lady on the front desk, I said, “I’m gonna step out for a few minutes.” And I went on out through the cataloguing area on out of the building. I didn’t know which way I was going, but I went out of the building [Laughter], cause I didn’t know what was happening. And so I stayed out there for a few minutes and I didn’t hear or see anything. I said, “Well maybe everything is alright.” And then I heard there was shooting upstairs. Oh Jesus.

	P:	Did you hear from someone else? Or could you actually hear the shots? D:	I heard it from somebody running outside of the library.

	P:	Oh, so you saw people running outside of the library? Oh wow.



	D:	Yeah, yeah. And I was back there on that back desk. So I didn’t know quite what to do. I went back in and I called my husband. I said, “Herb. They said there’s some shooting upstairs on the second floor here in the library.” He said, “Well you get back outside.” Cause see, we didn’t have the cellphones like we do now. I had to go back inside and I called him. And he said, “Well why don’t you come get me?” So I got in the car and I drove and I got my husband. By then we heard that there was a shooting going on in the library. It was on the radio, just that fast. So I got back to the library. And so he said, “It’s probably open now.” I said, “Well yeah, I heard that David Shelley was upstairs shooting.” He said, “It’s probably over.” And so we drove back onto campus and the police was there. And then Herb said, “Are you alright?” I said, “Yeah.” I said, “But I’m going back in there.” I didn’t have my ID—I wanted to get my stuff out of the office. My good stuff and





get out of there. And so I believe they said he couldn’t park. I think he took the car. Anyway, to make a long story short, I went in the back door of the cataloging area. And when I went in that back door, I thought everything had been done.

Somebody had said, “They stopped the elevator so nobody can come downstairs.” And the stuff is still going on the second floor. I got scared to death then. So I eased on in. I went in to where the circulation area was, and I was behind the door. And as I was behind the door, I saw David Shelley coming down the steps. He had two guns, and they were smoking.

	P:	He had two guns? D:	He had two guns.

	P:	And you said there was smoke coming from them? D:	And smoke was coming from the guns.

	P:	So he had just fired?



	D:	He had been firing up there. And I was stupid. I’m standing up. Now if he could have seen me through that crack, he could have shot me. I didn’t have sense enough right then to get to the floor. And as he came down the steps, he was tired and he was shuffling. I don’t know what I was thinking. And then I jumped down. I got on the floor too. And he came down and he sat down by the desk and he was just so tired. And then the police come running up in there carrying on.

David’s sitting there still holding the gun. They’re going up the steps, carrying on. I didn’t know quite what to do. Cause I was scared. I knew David was sitting over there. And they were going up the steps. He’s sitting there with the gun. Shaking and carrying on.





	P:	They ran right past him?



	D:	Right on past him. [Laughter] Went upstairs. The commotion was upstairs on the second floor. It had been going on a while evidently. I understand the reference meeting was being held. And they realized David first went to Dr. Hare’s office. And Dr. Hare was sitting at his desk. And when he walked in the door and turned around, David shot him in the back. And he put about six bullets in Dr. Hare.

	P:	Six?



	D:	Yeah. About five or six bullets in Dr. Hare. P:	That’s crazy.

	D:	Oh yeah. And Dr. Hare was sitting at his desk. Well he had got past the secretary cause she had stepped out for a few minutes. And that had happened. Well the folks didn’t know that had happened, so the meeting was still going on in the other room.

	P:	Oh wow.



	D:	David went back and reloaded and had clips on him in the bathroom. And the students and people that saw it were running. Cause he had the guns still. And the reference room, they didn’t know what was going on. They didn’t know that the—

	P:	Completely oblivious.



	D:	They were oblivious. They didn’t know. Well he came back and shot in the room where the reference meeting was. Peter Ballinchuck, who was then our chair, because Annette Liles was giving up the position. Because of her age and she was leaving cause she’s scared of David. That’s what it was. Because David





came to her house and tried to axe her house. Not only did he axe her office, he went to her house. And she was scared to go home. So she was giving up the job. She said, “I’m gone. Y’all can have this job.” All right. He shot in the office where the meeting was. Everybody started getting down on the floor right quick. And then somebody hollered Dr. Hare had been shot and folks were getting down to the floor. Pat was in the room. Pat said they had a desk—you know how they have the tables—and they took the tables and barred the doors so he couldn’t just run right in there on them. Okay. Peter Mallinchuck was bending down. A bullet went right across here. If you see Peter today, there’s a brown spot right there.

	P:	It went right across his head?



	D:	Right across his head. If he had been a half inch higher, it would have split his head open.

	P:	Oh wow.



	D:	So he was down. It went on across his head. Pat Moran said, “You talking about hollering and crying.” Said, “It was a mess in that room.” Cause he was shooting in the room. And they didn’t know quite where the bullets were coming from. One came through the door, that’s true. But then they were coming from other directions. He emptied out a second clip. And nobody got hurt. The closest one that got hurt was Peter Mallenchuck.

	P:	And it grazed the top of his head.



	D:	It grazed the top of his head. Everybody else was down like this on the floor, trying to hide and get out of the way. Well that was the second set of shooting.





And that was the second set of shooting that had just finished when I came in that side back door in the circulation area. And after he did that second clip, they said he went back in the bathroom up there again and loaded. But he was so weak and tired from all he’d done and his legs hurting him and whatever, he decided to come on downstairs and have a seat. And that’s when I saw him. So I see that the gun was smoking. And he had two guns. He didn’t have one; he had two. But they reported he only had one. That rascal had two.

	P:	Okay, and we’re back.



	D:	Okay. When David kind of came down the stairs, he was shuffling and walking slow and breathing hard. Like he was just out of breath. But he had the guns in his hand. And these were hand guns that he had. I guess they hold what, six slugs or whatever they hold? Like a handgun revolver type?

	P:	It was a revolver type?



	D:	That’s what he had. And he came on down those steps and he sat down and kinda flopped back in that chair. And the police were running upstairs. I guess they didn’t know what was happening. They got the other people out of the room and then they had the ambulance to come and get Dr. Hare. They had already gotten him out, cause he was in very bad condition. They thought he wasn’t going to live. Because he had pumped seven bullets in that man. And Dr. Hare is now deceased, but he went to his grave with three or four bullets in him. They could not remove those bullets, because some of them were near his spine. And he was handicapped. He had to come to campus in a handicapped vehicle that was fixed for him. And of course I don’t think Dr. Hare took us serious when we





told him how dangerous it was working downstairs. And Ms. Liles went up there. Sherman Butler went up there. I understand that others had gone and talked to Dr. Hare about something needed to be done. And he just kind of passed it off. But I think David shot him because Dr. Hare didn’t listen to him and didn’t give him the time that he wanted off. Ms. Liles would push it over on Dr. Hare. She said, “Well I already checked with Dr. Hare and he said you can’t have this time off. Or you can’t have this type of seat. Or you can’t change your hours to what you want.” That’s what she did. And by doing that, I think it saved her. Because if she hadn’t done it, he probably would have gone down there and killed her. But he had already axed her door. He had been to her house several times. The neighbors had a watch over her house so she could even drive in her yard with her car. That’s right, she told too that he put stuff in the driveway and messed up her tires. The tires on her car went down. I don’t know if they were nails or glass. She didn’t say what it was. But she was scared. And she wasn’t going home. She was staying in a hotel. She was staying with her friends. And then they would go in the house during the day with her. And so she said, “I’m not working here.” And so Peter Mallenchuck went in and he took the position right away. Cause he was already there. And then course Peter was in the meeting. I don’t know if he was trying to shoot Peter. Probably not. He was just shooting trying to get whoever was in that room. Cause he was angry because people wouldn’t let him have his way. And of course, that is what he did. And of course, later on they came back downstairs and they handcuffed him and carried him on out of the





building. And he didn’t resist them a bit. He was just like a child. Shoved on out of there. And they treated him okay. I didn’t see them pushing or act—

	P:	He didn’t put up any resistance?



	D:	No, he was tired. He was beat. He didn’t want to be bothered. And they carried him on out of there. Well after they carried him out, I still was behind the door and I stood up then. [Laughter] But I was peeping all along, trying to see what was happening. Folks were crying. Some of them—you’ve seen people swell? A couple of those librarians came downstairs and they were swollen. They were swollen from the stress. If you put people under a lot of stress, they’ll swell up on you. Ask guys in the military. They’ll tell you about that. And some of them had turned so red and they were nervous. Two of them had urinated on themselves upstairs. And they didn’t mind telling. They were just as wet as they could be.

They were scared. And Peter was no good. They had him on the stretcher. [Laughter] Cause he thought he was dead.

	P:	Oh, from the grazed bullet?



	D:	From the grazed bullet coming across his head. [Laughter] And Dr. Hare’s secretary, she was no good either. Because she said, “If I had been in here, maybe he wouldn’t have gotten to Dr. Hare.” But Dr. Hare was very open. The door was open. He didn’t even have to open the door. Dr. Hare was sitting there typing. And David went right in there pumping bullets in the man. I don’t know what words were had between them. They said there was some words said. But I don’t know what they were. I never knew, other than what the secretary said and what that was wasn’t nice. It was some language that was pretty raw that David





said to him. And he kind of turned around and then we he turned, David went to pumping the bullets in him. And that was the first incident that happened. And that didn’t take long to happen, but it took some time for him to go down there and load those guns up again. And then come back and go to the room with the meeting for the reference. And that was the second set of shooting, was in that room where they were having their reference meeting. And then of course after that, we saw it in the paper. And Pat Moran told me, she said, “Sherry, I’m gone.” She said, “I can’t work in here anymore.” And she left a little before I did. Then the job came open at Santa Fe. I applied for the job and I got it. I went to Santa Fe in September. This happened in May. I left the university in August. I got my tenure that summer. I had gotten my tenure, so that was already in place. And they couldn’t deny me that. And then I went on to Santa Fe and that’s how I left the University of Florida. It was stress that was uncalled for if they had done something. And Dr. Hare just acted like it didn’t happen. Everything is happy. He loved to fly. He was a pilot. And every Friday, Thursday sometime, he’d be out and gone. He’d be on his plane flying. I said to myself, “He didn’t fly anymore after he got those bullets in him.” Cause he couldn’t maintain his plane. He was an invalid from then on. And that’s pretty much the story. Now he went to jail.

David’s now dead. Every so many years we had to fill out paperwork again to keep him from getting parole. And the first one that would contact me was Peter Mallenchuck. I never had to worry. Peter always found me at Santa Fe. “Sherry, it’s time for us to fill out these papers again.” In the jail. And we would fill it out. All of us did. We filled it out and signed it and we sent it in to the proper people. That





was Peter’s job. David is now deceased. David refused to work in the library in the prison. They tried to put him in the library since he was good, could work—he refused. He would go peel potatoes or do whatever he wanted to. Coming from a well-to-do family, they said the family disowned him. All those attorneys and folks in his family, they said they disowned him. Because it was so unnecessary that he was a spoiled brat to go into a job and treat people the way he did. Flement Montgomery—oh Flement was livid. He tried to talk to David. He had David over to his house. He would go talk to David and try to get him to do right. But Flement couldn’t do much with him either. Flement Montgomery. He was another one of our library. Flement would come back down like this Sundays. And he start doing that, we knew it was bad time. Cause he let us know that he was cutting up. And we would act accordingly. We were walking on eggshells in there. We walked on eggshells to keep David where he was. Ms. Liles was scared of him. Of course, Peter wasn’t in the job that long, but Peter knew about him. And Peter didn’t seem to have the same fear. But he knew that the track record was set. The other thing too, they didn’t turn in all those files. When he was down there cutting up and the police coming in and all like that, they didn’t turn those records in.

That’s what I was told. So maybe Dr. Hare didn’t get the true story. But he did get the true story from the those people going up to his office talking to him and trying to get him to see that we needed some help in there. Not just for David, but for those raincoat bandits that were coming in through there. Because they had control. And they’d always come during that time. Like I said, Butler told me, “Sherry, it’s raining outside.” I said, “Oh lord.” [Laughter] And we knew what was





next. He said, “Go move the papers.” [Laughter] And he would be talking about the Alligator, those type papers. But they wanted the New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Financial Times. Those were the kind of papers that those guys wanted. And they would take those kind of papers and then use them for unkind things. And we had to deal with that. And of course, I don’t know if that story’s ever been told. But that’s just one of many that we had to deal with. And David was just a basket case in the sense of him being angry, wanting his way. He was a spoiled brat. And didn’t mind telling you how to get out of the way when he wanted something. You didn’t count for anything when it came to what David wanted. So that’s what David did, along with his psychedelic drugs they say that he was taking.

	P:	That’s terrible.



	D:	And then he was running with some of the best people. He ran with the great attorneys around here and the lawyers and the doctors. And so they let him have his way. They let him have his way. He drove a Volkswagen. I don’t forget that.

He drove his little Volkswagen up down that campus. If there was nowhere to park, he’d just pull it on up anyway. My car is little, y’all just slide on out the way. Stuff like that. You don’t treat people that way. And talk to students. Some of them were going to jack him up in there. And we’ve seen that several times. One guy told him that “Don’t even take your glasses off, cause I’m going to shoot right through them.” That’s what a student told him one day. “You don’t have to take them off.” And that scared the good morning out of me. But this was a student talking to him like that. And we had to work with him every day with all of these





activities. And it was rough. So Pat Moran left first. I was out of there as soon as I could myself out of there. Lin Yi Woo never worked another day in the library.

	P:	I was gonna ask about her. Because she was one of the first people to have problems with him.

	D:	Yes. Lin Lee lost her mind. And it was pitiful. The girl lost her mind. Mr. Woo would have to carry her around. It was practically like you would carry a child. Leading her. Not physically carrying her, but her leading her and directing her. Mr. Woo died and after he died, she had to go to New Jersey. Philadelphia was the last time I heard from her. She was staying with her children. She never worked another day. The girl lost her mind when he did that. She was in the room up there.

	P:	Oh, that’s terrible.



	D:	And see, I don’t know all of what she did, but Pat Moran can tell you what each one of them were doing in that room. And Pat said she was down like this. She said, “Cause I know that when you go down, the more you can flatten yourself.” Now she said he was shooting all over. She said the glass broke. The tables got shot up. Couple of chairs were shot up. And she said she was down on the floor like this. She showed me how she got down on the floor, so she didn’t care who didn’t have no room. She said, “I was stretched.” Cause she said, “The more I stretched, I flatter I could have gotten on that floor.” And she said, “It was hard.” She said it was terrible down there. She said them bullets were hitting. She said he didn’t just da-da-da-da. She said he’d hit and wait. And then it’d be quiet in there a bit. And then she said he’d hit again. And said you didn’t know when to





get up. And she said “We probably laid there fifteen to twenty minutes after he had left.” Cause they were scared. They didn’t know when another bullet was gonna come through that door. And see, that’s what made it as long as it was. It would have been in five minutes if he’d hit Dr. Hare, gone back, reloaded, and came back. But after he hit Dr. Hare, he went down there and reloaded those guns, came back, and then he just kind of pop here. Popped her over there on that side when he felt like it. And he knew they were in that room were scared to death, so he was having fun. They say he was out there laughing. Now that’s awful.

	P:	That is awful.



	D:	That’s what she said. She said you could hear him out there laughing. And she said, “I was down like this.” [Laughing.] I never knew that. She said, “If you ever go down.” She said, “Stretch your arms out and get as flat as you can.” That’s what she told me. And she said, “That’s what I did.” She said, “I didn’t care who else had space on the floor. Cause I had some space.” So that’s pretty much the story. And it hasn’t been really documented. And of course, you could talk to Peter Mallenchuck. He’s right here in Gainesville. And Iona, his wife. His wife worked in the education library. She’s retired and he is too. Both of them are home. Pat Moran would be a wonderful one. Pat Moran’s right here in town. I can give you her phone number. Butler is deceased, Sherman. Sherman died a few years ago. And Annette Liles is deceased, so she’s not available anymore. Lin Yi Woo, who lost her mind behind all of this. There was another librarian, I can’t think of her name, but she didn’t work anymore. She left Florida. She got right out





of here. When that situation—I can’t call her name right offhand. But after that happened, she called her family. She wasn’t a married lady. And they told her to get out of Florida. And she hadn’t been back. I don’t even know where she is anymore. I really don’t. So those are the people. Flement Montgomery. I don’t know if Flement is yet living. He might be living. Peter Mallenchuck could tell you if he’s still living. But those were the days. Those were the days.

	P:	Crazy days.



	S:	Yeah. And after that happened that day, and I was stupid, I stayed there right back there behind that door. I said that rascal could have laid a bullet right in me. But he didn’t see me. I stayed behind that door until they carried him on out of that building. I did have that much sense. I wouldn’t go out. I stayed behind that door and after he went out of the building and all, I went back in my office and got what I didn’t get. My purse, cause I usually carry my keys. I had my work keys and I had my car keys. I got my purse and other stuff and I came home to this house. And then I saw it on TV [Laughter] showing them carrying David out. And then a lot of news was being carried on then about Dr. Hare being shot. Well, some of them thought he was already dead, but thank goodness the man lived.

And then Dr. Hare’s assistant, he was up there that day. And I don’t know where he is now. But he told me later, he said, “You could just do like this and wash my hands.” He was so scared. Your hands ever get wet? He said, like you have soap on, he said, “That’s the way my hands were.” Cause he knew something was going on up there. He was in his office down he said crushed in the corner. He said, “I couldn’t help nobody.” He said, “I was just scared to death.” He knew





bullets were flying, but he didn’t know quite the details of what was going on. He heard David out there cussing. Cause he cursed and he used some pretty bad language toward Dr. Hare. He heard that and he knew to get in his office and shut the door. And he said, “I turned the lights off like there was nobody in there.” He said, “I was crushed out in my office.” So that’s basically the story.

	P:	I wanted to ask you about current projects you’re working on, research, things like that, you’ve been involved with recently.

	D:	Well the one when you first came in, I’m working with the University of Southern California. Last summer I was out there and in August. I went out there. This is a Pentecostal project, cause I do Pentecostal research. And I just received a small grant, it’s just for five thousand dollars, to help digitize material on the South. And I have the east coast from Florida all the way up to Maine, the east coast. There were several of us there at this conference. The purpose is to save Pentecostal documentation and make it available online for people to use, such as for dissertations, for research in general. It’s funded by the Templeton Foundation, but the grant was written by the University of Southern Cal. And I can give you information on that grant. I’m working on that with—I just finished with UNESCO.

	P:	Is that through the United Nations? D:	That’s right. United Nations.

	P:	Wow. Tell me more about that.



	D:	I’ve been with them since [20]07, officially. And we just go through doing a bus tour. In fact, Dr. Ortiz came down on Friday the 15th and did a presentation for us in Orlando at the Rosen Hotel.





	P:	I’ve been there.



	D:	Yeah, it was nice. Ooh, that project took a lot out of me. Cause I served as the main chair and my co-chair, she’s out of Daytona, but she’s also in Washington, DC quite a bit. And we got that project done for Florida, which is dealing with the trans-Atlantic slave trade. I’ve been involved with them now since [20]07. [20]08 I went to their conference in New Orleans at Tulane. [20]09 I went to Alabama to Montgomery. And [20]10 I went to Bristol, England for the conference. And then this year we had a program here in Florida. And I’m hoping, I’m going to check my email and see if that article that was just written was put in UNESCO. They’ve been very helpful. They advertised that we were having this tour and everything. And so that’s one project. And I really enjoy working with them. I’m also a Smithsonian Fellow, as of [19]87 I became a Smithsonian Fellow. So I went to DC, spent time. And since [19]87, I’ve been very active with the Smithsonian. I was with the American History and Life. Now I’m with the Anacostia Museum pretty much. They had Black American programs. I’ve worked with that. And basically what they have me do, I come up, they may have a lot of tapes they’ve received that people have given them. I identify the tape. I identify the church movement, the type span, the state, the types of services, I do a lot of that for them. I usually go for two weeks at a time and we take my whole family. And they have a good time. They enjoy DC.

	P:	That’s good.



	D:	Okay, so I have a collection there that opened on January 1. I gave them the collection in [20]04. And that was during the Bush administration. They froze the





money for the cataloging at the Smithsonian, so the only things that could get catalogued was stuff related to NASA and things that we related to going green. And so my stuff didn’t fit that, so it did not get catalogued until last year. And it opened January 1 and that’s at the Anacostia Museum. Now all of it’s not available; some of it’s still in the Iron Mountain. And it will be catalogued as needed. That collaborates with the University of Southern Cal, because what I’m doing here, we will send the material to Southern Cal. They’re uploaded on their site, but the originals are going to Smithsonian in my collection. So I’m increasing that collection. My first collection was in 1989 and that was funded by the Lilly Endowment, and that’s in New York, the Schomburg Research Center. And so that one opened in 1990. They got that one opened quickly. And they tell me, I don’t know, that I have the set the tone for African American [inaudible 1:08:16] Pentecostal materials throughout the world. Because I have people that come from England, from Birmingham, from Oxford, different places. They’ll take six months and get a research grant. They stay in New York and they use that collection to help write dissertations or research.

	P:	Your collection?



	D:	Yes.



	P:	Wow, that’s impressive.



	D:	And I’ve had them call me in the evening when they get through doing the day, asking questions. The area that people don’t really know too much about that I have, I have a lot of video tapes and cassette tapes, and they’re separate from the collection. They’re in another part. I’ve have friends go to New York and they





didn’t know that. And they didn’t get a chance to see those parts. Then another part they separated and put with the books. So I started these collections—that collection was in [19]89. My first publication was in [19]75, when I was in Ann Arbor. I did a book on displays for schools. I was a librarian in the school system at Tapen school. And my coordinator told me, he said, “You need to save these examples and publish it.” I published it. I didn’t pay it any attention. They put the book out; it sold three thousand copies so fast it wasn’t funny. And the Canadians bought it. See, Michigan’s right there to Canada. And they wanted new ideas. So I incorporated the business in [19]75 in Ann Arbor Michigan and had a fight with my husband, cause I was going to use Sherry Sherrod, which is my maiden name. “Oh no, you’re married, you’re gonna use Dupree.” So I used Dupree. [Laughter] But my first book carries Sherry Sherrod. So that was [19]75. And I put out another book on the card catalog in [19]78. I did two books when I was at UF on how to find resources. I still have a few copies around here somewhere. They didn’t get published officially. We’ll go there one day. Then in [19]89, I published an annotated bibliography—no, no. [19]89, the biographical dictionary on Holiness Pentecostal. There had never been a book published like that. Never. So we have a lot of African Americans who got their names in the literature for the first time. Bishops and ladies and women leaders of the church. I’ll show you a copy of that. And so that came out in [19]89 and that went along with the collection that opened then in 1990. And then in [19]95 I published again and this is the annotated bibliography. I identified over four hundred Pentecostal Holiness sanctified type churches and listed their addresses, their materials, and





so forth. And you can find that one on Amazon any time. And that book has very, very well. So that’s my major work. I worked with the Society for Pentecostal Studies since inception for me in the [19]80s. I served as their first African American president in 2001. 2000, I was in charge of the program for the Society for Pentecostal Studies. And that was in Seattle, Washington area. And I had never been to Seattle before. We had a dynamite program. And when I set the program, it was for a week. So I had to have my brother to come. My husband helped me, and some friends. My son Andres was in college up at A&M and one of his classmates was from Seattle. And we got in contact with his family and they helped me set my program. So that was for 2000. 2001 I was the president and I spoke at Oral Roberts University, gave my presidential speech. I’m still with them and that ties back into the Pentecostal movement and what I do with gathering of historical material. The other thing I guess I need to tell you is Rosewood. Rosewood family members came and sat at that table in the [19]80s, begging me to help them with research. I wouldn’t do it. My husband said, “No, you got little kids. You’re raising your children.” Andrew was three or four years old. “You can’t do that.” And I didn’t. I told them I’ll help them on the backburner. So I looked up the insurance policies for them, their land records, things like that. That I could do—

	P:	Deeds.



	D:	Deeds, yeah, that’s exactly where I was. I could not put my name out. Cause I was a mother, I’m raising my family. And they respected me for that. And I have been with the family ever since. They had their family reunion last weekend. I





couldn’t go. My mom was sick up in Carolina, so I went home to see my mother. But in any case, I have been with the Rosewood Heritage Foundation since inception. I did their Rosewood exhibit. And this was working with family members to get the material. So it’s a little bit different from what some of the movie stuff has. And that exhibit is in Daytona Beach at Bethune-Cookman in the library on the second floor. That’s the permanent exhibit. That’s a big exhibit. And then we have a travelling Rosewood exhibit that goes all over. Anywhere people ask for it, we send it. It’s been all out of state and around. It hasn’t been overseas and hopefully we’ll get it overseas in the next year or so.

	P:	I think definitely UNESCO would be interested.



	D:	Oh they are. That’s one reason why UNESCO is interested in what I’ve been doing. Cause in [20]07, when I went in to UNESCO, I was at Old Miss. Old Mississippi. Where they have confederate streets and rebel streets and all of that. They came to me; I didn’t come to them. “We need you to come in to UNESCO.” I said, “Well I don’t have a PhD. I have an ED.” Well she said that doesn’t matter. She said, “We followed your record.” And they knew people from Michigan that had helped me. And so I went in to UNESCO. So I’m in UNESCO now. [Laughter] I’ve been in UNESCO since [20]07. I’ve been to the Library of Congress. I’ve been to their 200th anniversary for the Library of Congress. I’ve worked with their folk life division. I worked with Fields to Factory Museum. That was an exhibit. In fact, Fields to Factory has traveled all over this country. That’s with—what’s his name? Oh gosh. He would shoot me. Spencer Crew.

	P:	Spencer Crew. And he’s the one who started Fields to Factory?





	D:	Uh-huh. I was a Smithsonian Fellow at that time. And he was working on Fields to Factory and I got involved with that. That’s been many, many, many, many years ago. My kids have grown behind that. So that’s pretty much Sherry. I love reading. I play piano. I relax that way. I have traveling gospel music exhibits, women exhibits, doll exhibits. I’m a Florida Humanities Scholar. Didn’t ask for it, but they made me one anyway. And I worked with them quite a bit. I usually go out and do speeches on Black History Month as a Florida Humanities Scholar. Two years ago I went to New Orleans and I was trained for story time for children. And I worked with the public libraries here, giving story hours. And I serve as the scholar. I don’t do the stories. I’m the one to analyze the stories with the children and the parents. So I’m a Florida Humanities Scholar, for whatever that is worth. But I enjoy it and I get to go places. So I’m pretty busy. My husband said he don’t understand how in the world I function. [Laughter] Plus I work at Santa Fe. I teach. If it’s something I’m really pushed to do, I’ll stay up and get it done. I’m getting old now and this all night stuff, I’m having to cut back on it, two o’clock in the morning. I used to stay up, do what I had to do. Get a shower, go right on to work. But I can’t do that anymore. Age is catching up with me.

	P:	You don’t have to take it like that.



	D:	I mean a little bit. But I stay active. I’m very active. P:	Well, obviously.

	D:	I enjoy people and I enjoy helping people learn. Also I did the Dudley project. The National Parks said that they had to have a justification for the role of African Americans on the Dudley farm. I did that in [20]06. It took us almost two years. I





was what they call principal investigator. Patty Bartlett, who teaches at UF, and Galinda Green Grant. The three of us. Cause you can’t do a project like this by yourself.

P:   But you said you were the principal investigator?



	D:	Yeah, I was PI on that one. And we got that done. I took us almost two years. We had to go out and interview people. That’s what I said when I set my interviews, I do a little bit different. But we interviewed people who had family members who had worked on the Dudley farm. They called it the Dudley plantation.

	P:	Oh wow.



	D:	That’s what Blacks call it. P:	So it has that connotation.

	D:	Yeah, that is the connotation. But we finished that project for the state. And then I go around, I do interviews. Last year I went to Pensacola. There was a lady a hundred and two years old. She just died here a few months ago. And she had knowledge of Rosewood and New Orleans and south. So I went up and did an interview of her. And I turned the interview in, so I don’t have that one. But that’s the kind of thing I do. People call me. I don’t call them. In fact, right now I have a Rosewood tour scheduled for August the 9th. And this is Little River, South Carolina. Because I coordinate the bus tours for the family. They’ll be coming in here. So they’re bus tours coming. They’re exhibits going. Trying to see my sons a little bit. They’re grown, but still. I still need to know what they’re doing. I got a lot of writing to do. In fact, this week, one of the encyclopedias I had written for, they sent me a note saying that the article would come out in November. I did





several articles for that encyclopedia. I can take you in the back and show you the gospel music encyclopedias, African American associations. I have articles in those things. The churches, what we all handbook of denomination type information giving statistics. They have accepted my statistics for several churches, cause they didn’t have it. And they knew that I had gotten credible grants from the National Humanities Council and other places. I did ninety thousand miles of travel on that book that came out in 1989. Ninety thousand miles of travel was done on that back.

	P:	That’s incredible.



	D:	We kept track of it. My husband and family, we rented an RV. We crossed the country from here to California, all the way down to Texas, all the way back.

Cause these people had never been interviewed. And their materials had never been gathered. So what I plan to do as I’m retired is rent a clearing house. Send in the material to Smithsonian after I have time to get it digitized and set up for use. Because with the University of Southern Cal, I will have the archive on the east coast. We have one in Texas in Dallas. We have one in Kansas City and then we have one in California up north in Richmond, California, that area. And these are Pentecostal archives and museums. I’m not opening up a museum. I don’t have a building. I’m not doing it. I’m sending my stuff to DC. But I’ll serve as a clearing house to help others. Plus, I get a lot of emails asking for information on Rosewood, information on lynching, stuff like that. And I’ve been involved with other organizations. I can give you some handout stuff if you want that. That’s pretty much me, whatever that is. [Laughter] Some days I don’t know.





	P:	Well I just want to thank you so much for doing this interview. It’s been a pleasure. I learned a lot. And I want to thank you on behalf of Samuel Proctor Oral History Program for taking the time out and talking to us today.

	D:	Well thank you. I really appreciate this. It was worth all the effort. Even though I was calling here and there.

	P:	It’s all good.



	D:	Okay. It’s all good. It’s just been a joy to sit and talk with you. P:	I’ve had a good time.

	D:	I have had a good time. I’ve learned a lot about Haiti and about your family and about structure. This is beautiful.

[End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, July 17, 2017 Audit-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, August 10, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019