AAHP 030; Butler; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 030 Alvin Butler

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Bria Shea on June 2, 2010 1 hour, 38 minutes | 43 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Alvin Butler describes his life growing up in the Gainesville area. His father was a farmer with many acres of land where he grew crops to sell and eat. Mr. Butler would travel up north with his father to sell their crops. He attended Lincoln High School for two years and graduated in 1944. When he had children, his son was selected to attend Howard Bishop School during integration because he had a high IQ. He served in the war and when he returned, worked as a cook for Kappa Alpha at UF for 50 years. In terms of values, his family would always give food to those in need growing up, and he continued that into adulthood. He strongly states his beliefs in treating other people fairly.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Lincoln High School; Agriculture; Integration; University of Florida]



Standards:

SS.912.A.1.3 Utilize timelines to identify the time sequence of historical data.



SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.



SS.912.A.2.5 Jim Crow laws



SS.912.A.7.12 Analyze political, economic, and social concerns that emerged at the end of the 20th century and into the 21st century.













For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 030

Interviewee: Alvin C. Butler Interviewer: Brian Shea Date: June 2, 2010



	S:	I guess I'll be taking notes just to know—like, for future questions to ask you, remembering names and such. But I guess the first question would be: did you grow up in Gainesville?

	B:	Well, I grew up in the country, Kirkwood area. That’s where I grew up at. S:	In the country, like, outside of Gainesville?

	B:	Yeah, it was Kirkwood. S:	Kirkwood?

	B:	Yeah, that’s where I grew up at. Mmhm.



	S:	Yeah, there was mention of your family in the book by Dr. Ortiz. I forgot to mention this before—my name is Brian Shea and I am interviewing Alvin Butler for the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. So, your family was from Kirkwood.

	B:	Yeah, my mother and father, that’s where I grew up at. They had the home there three years before I was born.

	S:	Can you describe the house? Like, how many rooms did it have?



	B:	Yeah, it had three bedrooms, and a bathroom, and a front and back porch. S:	Your parents were farmers, or—?

	B:	My dad farmed, yeah.



	S:	Your mom was a housewife?



	B:	She was out there on the farm, too.



	S:	Did you have any brothers and sisters? B:	One sister, one brother.

	S:	Were you the oldest child, or—?





	B:	Yeah, I’m the oldest one of them, mmhm.



	S:	What are your brother’s and sister’s names?



	B:	My sister’ name Inez. And my brother’ name David.



	S:	How did your parents feel about having three kids? Did they want more, or—? B:	I don’t know. I never talked about that. We never discussed that. Not around me. S:	Was that not discussed because it was just not discussed, or—?

	B:	I can’t answer that, I don’t know. All I know, they didn’t talk about that. Because I was the oldest one, and my brother was the youngest, so there were three of us.

	S:	Can you describe, like, what a typical day was in your house when you were little?

	B:	Well, we always had plenty of food to eat. We never went hungry. My parents would feed people in the neighborhood that wasn’t as fortunate as we was. My daddy bought a brand-new car in [19]29. [19]29 Ford, Model A Ford. And one year, he bought a tractor, too. He had his own tractor and mules. A couple of mules. He farmed.

	S:	How many acres? Do you remember?



	B:	Well, let’s see. He must’ve farmed about ten or fifteen acres. Or either twenty, or something like that I guess. He planted beans, cucumbers, romaine lettuce, eggplant, tomatoes, and corn. I might have missed something, I don’t know. We plowed it with the mule, we mostly did. When I got old enough, I learned to plow.

	S:	Did your father section off certain parts of the field for you and your brother to plow?

	B:	Huh?





	S:	Like, you did carrots and cabbages and eggplants, and your brother did the lettuce? Or was it just whoever was there to work at the moment?

	B:	Well sometimes, he would just, you know, hire somebody to help him gather it sometimes. He’d hire someone. We farmed there, that’s the way we made a living: by farming. And he was pretty well successful, because his farm looked better than most people’ in his neighborhood, and they would wonder what happened. [Laughter] It was some secrets, so I don’t tell what his secret was. We used to have a University of Florida professor come out and bring students out there and look at the farm, when I was a young boy. Mmhm.

	S:	So it was a family secret as to why you guys did so well? [Laughter]



	B:	Well, he did pretty good, because some things he did, he didn’t tell everybody what he was doing, so. I knew what it was, but I didn’t tell anyone either.

	S:	So you guys had mules to plow? So you had mules to help you plow—



	B:	We had mules. I think some of them plows are still out there in the barn, I think.



Plows, and later on, we got the tractor. He had a tractor just to cultivate the ground. And later on, he bought a Oliver diesel tractor. It’s still out in the country on the farm. We have three tractors out there now. The Oliver will still run, but the [inaudible 5:24] ain't working too good. But tractors, you know?

	S:	Did you have any livestock out on the farm, or was it just agriculture? B:	We had cattle.

	S:	Where you grew up on the farm, did everyone know their neighbors? Did everyone know their neighbors? Or was it that you had neighbors, but you didn’t know who they were? Did it have a sense of community?





	B:	Did they have what, now?



	S:	A sense of community. Like, were you friends with your neighbors, or did you just not know who they are? You just—

	B:	We knew everybody in the community during that time. During that time when I grew up, they had a school in this country. It was a country school when I first went to sixth grade, in Kirkwood, and it didn’t go higher. When I was seventh grade, we had to go to Micanopy to school. And my daddy bought me a bicycle I rode to Micanopy every morning. And it was the superintendent here finally, and the following year, I went to ninth grade. So I went back up there in Kirkwood ‘til I completed ninth grade. That’s when I came to Lincoln High School, in tenth grade. And see, the school bus picked up the White children right in front of our house, our house right beside the highway. Right next to the highway, it’s there now. And, but we couldn’t ride the bus. Between seven and eight White children rode the bus every morning. We got to school best we could. And I say, about 85 or 90 percent of the kids that completed ninth grade didn’t go to high school because they couldn’t get to school. But I was fortunate enough to have bought a car when I was fourteen years old, and I drove to town, and five more children rode with me. When I went to high school, it wasn’t but four students had automobiles. Now, you can’t find anywhere to park on campus. And I think five of the teachers had cars. And the man run the funeral home, he one of the students had a car. And the guy that live in the house down there, his father had a car— his father was just passed. And he’s buried in West Palm Beach, I think.

	S:	What kind of car did you get when you were fourteen?





	B:	[19]33 Plymouth. S:	What color?

	B:	[19]33 blue Plymouth, mmhm.



	S:	And you would take five other kids with you to school every day? B:	Hm?

	S:	Five kids with you every day to school?



	B:	Yeah, we rode to school together. Gas was thirteen to nineteen cent a gallon. During the wartime, gasoline was rationed. And it wouldn’t work now, because you had to have a sticker on your car, an A coupon or B. A sticker got only three gallon a week; and if you had a B, you get four gallons per car a week. And a C, like you doing commercial work—well see, my father farmed. He had books like this of C-stamps. Each stamp was five, you could purchase five gallons of gas with it. And a tractor would start on kerosene, and kerosene wasn’t rationed. You would crank it up on a little bit of gas, and switch it on gasoline. And one of the servicemen [inaudible 9:01], we go out and buy gas with it. And I had gas to ride all around. That A. Quinn Jones was Lincoln High School then. I went out to—we had a reunion a couple of months ago. I hadn’t been in that school since 1950. I hadn’t been in there. That the year my brother completed high school. The auditorium, it was different. They done changed some things in it. See, I came out in the class of [19]44.

	S:	Speaking of Lincoln High School, you graduated in [19]44, and you started in tenth grade. So ninth grade, you went to the high school, and—





	B:	I completed ninth grade out in the country in Kirkwood. See, but I went to seventh grade in Micanopy, and the following year the superintendent tell them, “Oh let’s go up to ninth grade,” and we went to eighth and ninth up there in Kirkwood, then I came to Lincoln High School.

	S:	What was one of your favorite classes at Lincoln High School? B:	Hm?

	S:	One of your favorite classes at Lincoln?



	B:	Well, I had no problem none of them, to be honest with you. I think one of my teachers still living, though. One that taught me in third grade. She lives in Melrose. And she pretty sharp. I’m going out to see her one day. She about ninety-eight years old.

	S:	When did she teach?



	B:	Out there in Kirkwood there, out in the elementary school.



	S:	Did you ever take a class on etiquette or courtship at Lincoln High School? B:	What now?

	S:	Etiquette or courtship? B:	Mm-mm.

	S:	Because some people have mentioned there was classes on how to date and stuff like that.

	B:	How to do what?



	S:	How to date, and how to, like, go on a date with a woman. B:	No, we didn’t take those classes.

	S:	What kind of classes did you take, then?





	B:	History, English, mathematics, geometry, chemistry, physics, and some others. I forgot now.

	S:	Were you a part of any clubs or anything while at Lincoln High School?



	B:	Well, I remember the 4-H Club. We were taught the 4-H Club at Lincoln. I remember the 4-H Club. The four Hs: head, heart, hands, health. And we would go off on trips in the summertime. And they had an exhibit; you would bring something for the exhibit off the farm, what you grew—like potatoes, a hog, or a calf, or something like that. And get prizes for that.

	S:	Did you ever win any prizes?



	B:	Quite a few. Really, my daddy did it. But I didn’t do it, but I got credit for it. [Laughter]

	S:	That still hasn't changed, then. B:	Huh?

	S:	Hasn’t changed, then. Still happens today.



	B:	Mmhm. We didn’t have eight months of school, and the White had nine months during that time. We had eight months, and they had nine.

	S:	Do you know why they had one more month than you? B:	Huh?

	S:	Do you know why they had another month of school than you?



	B:	Well, they was in charge. They made the decision. They were the ones that did that. Acted like we couldn’t go back downtown, we couldn’t go to the same bathroom. They had the same bathroom say “White” and other say “Colored.” And the water fountain in quite a few of those stores didn’t have no electricity to





it, just regular water fountain. The other fountain had a cooler system on it. I’d say, we traveled on the highway. We'd go up north traveling, and you’d stop to the service station, and some didn’t have no bathrooms for Black. No. They had that “White only”

	S:	So you had to plan your trip accordingly, to try and stop at places you knew had bathrooms?

	B:	What we would do mostly, we were traveling, before we'd get low on gas, about a half a tank, we would pass on. If we didn’t find a bathroom, we didn’t buy gasoline. Some had bathrooms that said “Colored Only,” had it all filled up with old car tires and things. We didn’t buy gas those places. We'd buy it at places where we'd use the restroom. Actually, when my father was farming—I never forget as a young boy. Guy came, a trucker came by. It was a lot of truckers then. Told my dad he wanted three tons of cabbage. You know what a ton of cabbage is, don't you?

	S:	No.



	B:	A ton of cabbage, a fifty-pound bag of cabbage is fifty pounds. And a ton, it takes forty bags to make a ton. And he wanted three tons of it. My daddy got ahead and got the ton. I was small. And after he got in the truck, the guy came back, he say, “I give you ten.” Daddy say, “I’d give them to a cow first.” Another truck came by, say, “I’ll buy them.” So daddy sold to the other guy. And people worked. See, Momma worked on the farm with my dad. Sometimes she'd get caught up. She might would to dig out, help out a little bit on that—there were several big farms around there, see? Sixty cent a day, from sun up to sun down; sixty cent





day, that what they were paying them: sixty cent. And another thing, too: we had our own—well, we killed hogs, had a smokehouse. We had meat from January to January. You put it in the smokehouse, you hang it in the smokehouse, you smoke it. And it kept in that smokehouse. And we had sweet potatoes, same way. And way we did our corn, you shear of course—every so often, not too often, but I would have to—it was my job as I got larger—is shear too much corn. A bushel of corn or a little better, and bring it right down about where the corn shop at. The place you grind corn in, and you’d grind half and half: half for the mill, and half of the corn. But my daddy paid for it and kept all of his, but if you didn’t have no money doing this—well see, if you had thirty pounds of corn, you could grind up fifteen pounds of it, and they kept fifteen for doing it. They’d always—he paid for his.

	S:	Was that a thing of pride for him knowing that he could pay for all of his corn, rather than—?

	B:	Who?



	S:	Your dad. Knowing that he could pay for all of his corn, and get all of his corn back?

	B:	That’s what he would do. He'd take forty pounds, or twenty-five pounds of corn; he’ll pay for it. And so he’d get all of it back. Get the meal—half meal and half grits. We could make syrup, cane syrup, all those things. And with the one they twisted up; they twisted when, they came out here until [19]46. And didn’t have freezers. My parents would take it and put up peas, peaches, pears, jelly, make pickles, beans, all that stuff. Put it in pint jars and quart jars. We may have three





or four of them jars left, I don’t know. I went through it all, though. May be one or two of them left in the barn now.

	S:	From how long ago?



	B:	Well, I mean, during my mother’s life. My mother—they were twenty-something years, they had put on a boil. When my father died, I was sixty years old. He been dead twenty-two, about twenty-three years. Twenty-three years. My mother lived one year and four days longer after my father. We always had plenty of food to eat. They took people who come by be hungry, and Momma would feed them. And why I’ve been doing the same thing since I been here. We’ve been married Sixty-one years, my wife and I. Sixty-one years. When I moved here, that street, I think it wasn’t paved.

	S:	Yeah, it wasn’t. Was it just regular dirt road, or was it— B:	It was limerock on top of it.

	S:	On top of mud?



	B:	On top of that street there. S:	Yeah.

	B:	And we go over here, we were paying—before we purchased the house, we paid two dollars a head for a week’ rent. All my children were born here. I have my oldest daughter, she teach out to Rawlins children. She’s fixing to retire in August. My other daughter, she teach in Melbourne. I don’t know when she retire. My son, he played football for Florida, and my grandson played for Florida. My son is [inaudible 19:06]. Right off next to the house up there. Going to have a





cookout, Saturday going. He want take care of the animals and stuff out there on the farm.

	S:	You mentioned before that you and your wife have been married sixty-one years. B:	We’ve been married sixty-one. We moved here in October. We married in May.

We moved here in October of [19]49. We married May 30, 1949; we moved here in October of [19]49.

	S:	How did you propose to her?



	B:	I don’t know. See, [inaudible 20:01]. She was the first girl I had met didn’t drink or smoke. And we’ve gotta take after it, I guess. Because I went down to see someone, and she was downtown, we just start talking. I wait ‘til the people come up. She hadn’t been in town long, and she didn’t know a thing about the whole [inaudible 20:27], out from LaCrosse. She have property out there too. She had land up there, where she came from. And we talked and talked. And we got together, and went to the movies, and we started dating. And we end up getting married.

	S:	Did you ask her father for permission to marry her beforehand? B:	Hm?

	S:	Did you ask her father if you had permission to marry her?



	B:	No, during that time, she was twenty years old at the time we married. You couldn’t marry without having—she had to be twenty-one years old without the consent of parent. And so I take the slip by, and her mother signed it. And, so we got married. We didn’t have no big wedding. We had went to courthouse and bought a marriage license, got married, the judge married us, [inaudible 21:23].





She went back to work, I went back to work. And we been together ever since. 1949.

	S:	How long were you guys engaged before the actual marriage? B:	About six month. Mmhm.

	S:	You mentioned before that you had two daughters and a son. Or—?



	B:	Well, I have a stepson. My oldest daughter, her picture’s up on the wall up there.



My oldest daughter there have a stepson. I was sitting here the other day, look over here, my son’s picture in the high school. She must have moved it. It was sitting there for a long time, him in high school playing football. I had the picture there. I know the date, I still have the receipt.

	S:	When were your children born? B:	When was they born?

	S:	Yeah.



	B:	My oldest daughter was born in 1950, and my other daughter was born in [19]51.



My son was born in [19]53.



	S:	Did any of them attend Lincoln? B:	Hm?

	S:	Did any of them attend Lincoln when it was a high school?



	B:	Now, my oldest daughter went to Lincoln. And it was during the integration time. What they did, they started integration and tried to get someone with the highest IQ. My son, he was one of them picked out to go to Howard Bishop. Howard Bishop High. And my youngest daughter, she was beginning high in [19]69, and





my son came out in [19]71. My oldest daughter, she said that Lincoln [inaudible 23:25], considering the time.

	S:	Did you have any jobs before high school or after high school? B:	Who?

	S:	You.



	B:	Well, yeah, I had a job. But I ain’t never start—my uncle, what my uncle did— before then I—. My first job out of high school, I worked down in White [inaudible 23:56]. I was the help. Help the man put up auto parts, and different thing. I never forget one morning, the man in charge there was named John Mims. He’d be drunk most times. And I did most all that. Putting up shipment parts; through the war times couldn't get no new parts, hardly. And in High Springs, Trenton, one of those towns, they would order parts from him. Car parts would be [inaudible 24:31] down on University Avenue. I worked there, and I would deliver the parts. That morning, I’ll never forget. That morning, heard Mr. Ellis say, he say: “This goddamn man drunk again, and we got all these orders coming in.” And I say to him, I said: “I can do it.” See, I been doing it all the time. And I heard him tell the other guy back there, he say, “That nigger say he can do it, but I don’t think he can do it. I’m going give him the biggest order we have.” I was making eighteen dollars a week, six days a week. And I would fill all the orders, he would check them out, carry to the post office there—to the old post office downtown—and shipped it off. And when I took to them—see, I was married—I say, “I won’t be back.” He said, “Why?” I said, “I need another job.” He say, “Don’t quit.” They raised me to twenty-one dollars a week. They brought a White boy in, and I was





supposed to help train him. Then I’d go in the back there and help clean them old motors out. You know, this was back on them old cars then, I would grease the parts. And so one day, we was back up there grinning like it was no business, talking. And he say he'd get his money and he going to do something [inaudible 25:56]. He came up—I was training him, he was getting thirty-one dollars a week and I was getting twenty-one. And I was training him; I had to tell him how to do things, he didn’t do them. And I went to [inaudible 26:06], I went in the Army, I came back. After, I worked in the kitchen. My uncle cooked, worked with him before. I worked with him, then I started working with a fraternity. I cooked with a fraternity fifty years and a half. On campus. Yeah, for fifty years and a half, for the Kappa Alpha fraternity. I hear people complain about them doing all kinds of things? They was doing the same things back then. Dating girls, getting high, they having sex with them. You know. I hear them talking, some of the same things went on now. With people, back in the [19]70s, they would do the streak. “Streaking,” they called it. They get nude and run down the street.

	S:	Was this up and down 13th Street at the time, or down University? The streaking.



	B:	Well, they had just built those fraternities on fraternity row. They had built those fraternities, and they did one run up from one house down the street. I don't know about its address. They had moved the houses out there on fraternity row. And they run at night, 12 or 1 o’clock at night, maybe ten or twelve of them. Maybe would run from here up to that corner down there. And they’d go to the dorm, and do things to the girls’ dorms. Panty raids. Go to the dorms and take panties from the girls, and that was funny to them.





	S:	What was your most recent major job or occupation? You say you worked for your uncle, and you worked at the auto store.

	B:	I told you, I cooked for the fraternity for fifty years and a half. S:	Anything after that?

	B:	I was the head cook for fifty years and a half. I’ve been about maybe twelve years now.

	S:	This storm! Do you have any other ties to the University of Florida? B:	Huh?

	S:	Did you have any other ties to the University of Florida?



	B:	No. I’ve been on different committees around here in the communities. Right now, I’m the president of the Pleasant Street Historic Society. And I’m vice president of the Neighborhood Association. And I attend another meetings, too. I have sat on the task force again. Some [inaudible 28:58] church down there, I’m one of the deacons at that church around here for forty-nine years.

	S:	What got you involved with the Pleasant Street Historic Society?



	B:	Well, they tried to the neighborhood right here, they changed it to a historic district because all these students come in down here changing, doing changes. They didn’t want no houses torn down, or be rebuilt the same way. And I was over there organizing in [19]84, I believe it was. I saw the first minutes they has, and I’m one of the members, most of them are still in it. Most of them that started it, most of them dead. I have a picture of the house that we’d go to, on that walll there in that room there.





	S:	Do you only work with the historic society? Do you work with the Thomas Center at all?

	B:	No, we have our meetings over at the Thomas Center quite a few times. But Dee Henrichs is the, she over the historic society. Dee Henrichs? They want to try and keep things like it was years ago. But you know, things change. Some of the students come in here, they change it around. When my wife and I moved here, it wasn’t nothing but Black all around the line. About fifty-fifty I think, up there.

	S:	Did it seem like the community was split evenly between Blacks throughout this neighborhood?

	B:	Well, that’s where most of them lived. That’s all who lived out here, that’s all lived here. Wasn’t no White. Only time I see a White, during that time they had the insurance man going around and selling insurance, walk the streets. Wasn’t no [inaudible 31:17]. Down there where Santa Fe is, that was the train station. All that land, the Black businesses were just—. Juke joints, what you call them?

Juke, we called them. Had a place in the back to dance, and people would put a nickel in. People were selling beer and stuff in there, little sandwiches. All the way down 5th Avenue, back over here on 2nd Street. See, all them things, I remember.

	S:	Are there any buildings that you miss and still think about today that used to be here?

	B:	Well, probably feeling [inaudible 32:00]. See, I got older, see? Down in [inaudible 32:04], they had a pool room. One, two. I played pool a lot when I was young. We played pool for money, too. And about three or four pool hall, we had





a pool hall across town, [inaudible 32:21]. We played for money, mostly. Out there on Sugarhill, and out East Gainesville. See, they was serving, these were places where Blacks lived at, could go through here and do things. And you couldn’t buy no whiskey; this county was dry then. I believe it was [19]60 when they went wet. You had to go to Marion County, or Columbia County, or Putnam County to buy whiskey—legally. Now, people would black-market it around, but that didn’t worry me because I never drank. It never worried me, that. But a lot of people drank. They party, get drunk, and show they behind.

	S:	You mentioned earlier that you guys would play pool for money. Were you a hustler? Did you hustle your pool games?

	B:	Well, we’d play for money. We knew—we done played everybody; some people we couldn’t beat. We had a guy who came through, a real sharp, but you knew he couldn’t [inaudible 33:33]. But we knew what going around, we knew who you should beat. During that time, we wasn’t making much money. See, you playing a dollar for a game, you playing for a lot of money during that time. We played pool, we played cards for poker. Poker, and something called Georgia Skin. I don’t hear talk of that Georgia Skin going on. It may be, but I don’t hear no people say it.

	S:	What’s Georgia Skin?



	B:	There’s fifty-two cards in a deck, and four suits is one. And mix the cards up, you get a card and I get a card. And one that double off first, you put money on a big bet. First hand doubled off, he lose. They played around, and was some of that crooked, too. ‘Cause then you could buy ordered cards, and you would know





what card it was from the factory. You’d know from the back what they was. They would learn how to mark the cards. They’d take them, buy them cards, and take the [inaudible 34:50] there, to your aces, and your kings, and your queens.The other person don’t know it. If you start playing, if I don’t know no better, y’all work together. Take advantage of other people. It’s a lot of crooked stuff go on.

	S:	You mentioned before that your daughter went to Lincoln High School after it was integrated, right?

	B:	She went before they had integrated, but during that same time, my other daughter went out here to Gainesville High School. She went out here to Gainesville High School. Over here where the 720 building, that used to be Gainesville High School, long time ago.

	S:	Did you know anyone or did you participate in the marches against the integration of the—

	B:	I didn’t mess around in them marches. I didn’t took to the marching. I was around, but I never participated in them. Most time, I was working. I didn’t mess with, no. I didn’t take part in that stuff too much. I knew, remember they’d go down and they would demonstrate around the theater. See, the Black couldn’t even go to the movies. And they would demonstrate, they would be around at the movies going, a whole bunch of them standing around there. The man own that funeral home, he used to be down there too. Charles Chestnut? He was a young boy then, during that time.

	S:	Were there any other places that young people hung out at the time other than the pool halls and the theater?





	B:	Well we went—we had pool halls; we had, certain times of the year, football games, basketball games, different things they had. And see, we lived in a neighborhood. We knew most people, see? Like when something happen in this area, if somebody go ahead of that, we would go over across town, the next part of town, where you’d find something going on. Now, we lost they general hospital that’s closed up. Right across [inaudible 37:13] was a lot Black there by that area, lot of Black people in that area during that time. But see, all them places been closed up.

	S:	When you were young, back on the farm in Kirkwood, did your parents shelter you from any of, like, the racism of the time?

	B:	They didn’t shelter me. We knew we wasn’t supposed to be—. Some of the White kids would come over and play with us, but my parents wouldn’t let me go and play with them, ‘cause some of them people, they resented us being with them. But some of them come over to our house. If they be hungry, Momma would feed them. And some people, they didn’t have food like my parents had. They’d come over and Momma would feed them. People got along pretty good in the woods out there during that time. We all got along pretty good. We have property on that lake now, out there. On Levy Lake, have property there, and right off Wacahoota Road there, property too. And I tell down what, 235? Or what’s that little highway out from LaCrosse? My wife have property down there where she came, she have property out there. My nephew farm that. Organic farming, he use that. See, if you farm the land, your tax is not as high. I’ll probably go out in the country tomorrow, and if I feel like it, I may do a little





mowing around there. I planted some peas the other week, the week before that. My wife and I went over there yesterday, and the deer done ate them up. They had chewed them like the [inaudible 39:35], like this. Ain’t going make nothing.

I’m going try another place across the road. I’m going to cultivate that over again, and try some over there. Because the man own that property over there, some guy already killed the deers, the young and old ones. Or maybe he gets somebody, I don't know. I'm going to plant some rows of peas over there, see what happen. But I have the ag on that property, it doesn’t cost me that much.

That land, the tax is sky high when you do that. I went to church up there two weeks back, and I was surprised that people knew me; I didn’t know them. But I asked them who they was; I knew they parents. They done growed up. Grown men and women, they knew me, but I didn't know them.

	S:	What denomination was the church?



	B:	It’s a Baptist church. I go there on Sundays to that corner, that big old Baptist church right on the corner. I attend that church. It’s the Friendship Baptist Church. Been going there a long time.

	S:	Has it been there since you moved here? B:	Huh?

	S:	Has the church been there since you moved here? B:	It’s nice.

	S:	Has it been—was it there when you moved here?



	B:	That church is a hundred and—it was established in 1888. Mmhm. And my aunt told in her lifetime—see, it’s a basement below the ground. The other part is built





on top of it. That part was built in 1911. My aunt told me, say they called it the “church in the hole,” when they would go to school over there to Union Academy. That’s before they went to Lincoln, that was built. They always called it the “church in the hole” ‘cause it was down in the ground. But it’s still there. That where we go to church at. I'm going to go to a meeting ‘round there tonight probably.

	S:	Do you recognize anyone else at the church that you grew up with? B:	Huh?

	S:	Anyone else you grew up with when you were little that still goes to the church with you?

	B:	No, now—them people I grew up with, there only two of them left living, and most of them dead. And I talked to my brother this morning, him and I were born the same year. He’s up there in Alachua, but he live down south. And we were just talking about most all the guys and women, women and men we grew up with; most of them dead. I went to a, we have a ministers’ and deacons’ meeting, I went to Olustee, Florida. You know where that is? It’s 40-something miles out from—going through here, on this side of Lake City. And I say, I’m about one of the oldest persons there, I guess. I never would have—I saw quite a few of them in their seventies, but—. Get old, and peoples can't get around. Put them in a nursing home, they can't get around. In fact, my people died in they fifties. Forties and fifties. And I’m in my eighties, so that make a difference. My son, he fifty- seven; he the youngest. September the 11th, he be 57.

	S:	What’s your son’s name? Is he—





	B:	His name is Alvin B. Butler. S:	The third?

	B:	No. See we thought—the middle name, we don’t have the same middle name. I didn’t realize, I had told them I wanted to name him Alvin, and one day they wanted to name him Bernard, and so they didn’t take the Bernard out. I found out later on, Bernard still; I let it stay there, I wouldn’t change it. His name Alvin Bernard, and his son named after him. I was named after my daddy, except I didn’t change it. When I found out it would cost me a hundred dollars to change, so I just let it stay like it was.

	S:	What’s your middle name? B:	Alvin Calvin.

	S:	Alvin Calvin?



	B:	Yeah it’s my grandson, he lived in Orlando. He have a condo, apartment out here on 6th Street, University Avenue middle of Boardwalk they call it, and he come here once in a while. [inaudible 44:16]. I was telling him, I said, “When you getting married?” And he said he taking a test this weekend. He wants to go to one of them—Yale University or something, get a degree in Masters. He got his bachelor’s in 4 years, and some kind of business he wants to go into. He done took half the test, take the other half on Saturday. When he in high school, he got a 1600. He made a perfect score on the SAT test.

	S:	He got a perfect score?



	B:	They called him on campus—in school, they called him “the 1600.” He made a perfect score. He was a student in South Carolina, but he came back here





because every summer he attended the summer program. So he be back probably next weekend to see us. Now when he come back up he [inaudible 45:15]. We don't have, my daughters didn’t have no children. They always say, “We’re good.” And they didn’t have any. But my son, my son have a daughter. And I think she took some kind of trip now, what it is?

	S:	Are you guys proud of your children and what they’ve accomplished?



	B:	Well thankfully, they didn’t get into no trouble. ‘Cause some of them, I see out there getting in trouble, jail and all that. I don’t like all that. When I put, wouldn’t be able to do nothing about it. I didn’t like that. They’ve made it so far, anyhow. Like my son, he work with the people who have problems, go to jail and have problems. He have two offices in Gainesville, and an office in Ocala, one in Palatka, and one out in St. Augustine. He teach classes, he works real hard, and comes in sometimes ten o’clock at night, go out and check on the cows and things. Like, week before that, we had a calf born. And it couldn’t stand up. The mother had no milk, that what it was. We didn’t know ‘til it was too late. And the fellow died. We give him a bottle, a cup a day, but he died. We had coyotes killing the calves, the baby calves, too. We lost four calves to coyotes killing them. We have one of those—we bought one of those scopes, to see at night now.

	S:	Night vision goggles?



	B:	You can see them at night. See, that one time them things come in at night and kill those things. And wild hogs would go out in the pasture, root the grass up. Well see, those the grass roots, tear the grass up for the cows to graze on. It





take money to get cattle going. You have to feed them all through the winter, and those grass farms we got to buy all the hay up for them to eat during the wintertime. Right now if I drive the gate now, [inaudible 47:45]. If I drive to the gate, they see the car or truck, they come a-running. They know we always feed them.

	S:	I see you have a picture of Obama. B:	Uh-huh.

	S:	What did you think of the election?



	B:	Well, we got what happened. Majority of the people vote, and that’s who they get.



And regardless of who is the president, they can’t do but so much. They can’t pass a bill; the senators overrule them. They want to do something, whether they Democrat or Republican. And I know lot of people worrying about Democrat or Republican. It depend on who people put into office and how the senators go along with it. If you the president and he want to do something, and the majority of senators disagree with it, he can’t pass it. See, that’s the way the system works, ain’t it?

	S:	Mmhm.



	B:	Mmhm. Democratic system. And that’s the way it go. But it’s dog-eat-dog in that they all lie to you when they run a campaign. The first time I voted was in 1940—. Right now, you can’t get no driver’s license permit ‘til you sixteen. I had mine when I was fourteen. During that time, we got them earlier.

	S:	Do you remember who you voted for? B:	Hm?





	S:	Do you remember who you voted for?



	B:	Yeah, I know who I vote for. I voted for Truman during that time. Yep. I know who I vote for, who I voted for. Well who you vote for, they going have some thing that they do you oppose, you don’t agree on everything. But the other, it’s some things he do you don’t agree with. So. Like the local election, you have the different politicians, people in politics, they crooked. Now, see, where the school board will require a uniform. And [inaudible 50:13]. And everybody’s going wear a uniform. But so many young people now wearing those pants hanging off them; I don’t like that. Showing their underwear and all that. But it ain’t what I like, it’s what people want to do. Here some of my pictures of my family. Turn the light on, there. Put that switch up there, I’ll show—that light switch over here.

	S:	Where?



	B:	Up there.



	S:	This one?



	B:	One of them. Yeah, I’ll show you some more photos. That was my momma when she was about sixteen years old. She was sixteen. That’s her picture there. And that’s my wife’ mother there and her father. And we have pictures of them right here. Like here, this is—that’s me and my wife, there. There. And that’s my daughter, and that’s my niece here. Yeah. And you can’t see all of them. This is my oldest daughter when she was a few months old. That’s the one that fixing to retire. That’s with them. There’s the other daughter, and that my son. And the same room there where she was, where that picture taken. This my mother and father picture. Can you see that?





	S:	Mmhm.



	B:	That’s him. Right in front of their house there. S:	That’s the house out in Kirkwood?

	B:	Yeah, uh-huh. Yeah, that’s the house. They moved so many pictures around, my wife did. I'll show you the house out there too. I’ll show you the house again.

	S:	I guess my next question would be, looking back in your life, do you have any regrets about anything?

	B:	No, I really don’t. I mean, I mean, what happened, happened. It’s some people that they hate different people, I don’t have hate against nobody. Because what so happen will happen, don’t even worry about it. The way I see it, and I wonder about people saying they’re Christian, they don’t like that person or like that person; can’t understand, I don’t believe in that. I can’t understand it. All kinds of people all over the world that think different. They believe in God, but they—you a Christian?

	S:	I’m Presbyterian.



	B:	Presbyterian. I thought y’all would be Christian. S:	No, well.

	B:	You believe Jesus Christ died? S:	Mmhm.

	B:	People have different faiths. And I had to tell this the other night, we have class. Some of them say how—let me see, who wrote the first five books of the Bible? Do you know who wrote the first five books?

	S:	No, not off the top of my head. [Laughter]





	B:	Let me see. I know, can’t think of it. But in other words, regardless, see, Adam was the first person. And Eve—took a rib, for Eve. That what it say. They wondered how they, how did he know the right—? But don't even worry about how it happened. He got knowledge from somewhere, we was told somewhere to do it. I’ll be doggone! The first five books of the—. Adam and Eve, peoples who planned that. I disagree with one other thing: people go into churches and other things, they teach you. I used to listen, because if you read the Bible it make an illustration. See, if you go back to on University Avenue, that’s back this way. And you leave here and you go around to 8th Avenue, and you go on down there to 10th Street, and then cross over at the—. It didn’t say why you going that way, so how they going to tell you why? All you doing was what written. But people, they go on complaining. They have, “Because this—.” You don’t what happened. I don’t agree with you. All you go by is what written in the book. All you go by is what written in the book. Some think they know it all; I sit and listen. Some peoples get up, some of the younger mens, they get up, see; ‘people are old, and they don't know what’s going on.’ But they’ll be old one day, too, and they don't know what going on, and they be guessing. If it not in the book, you speculating. Like, we have Sunday school, you going by commentaries with the lesson. You write commentaries, this person writes commentaries. Now, the same Bible verse, and you write down what you think it mean. You speculating what you think it mean, and I’m doing what I think it means. That don’t mean I’m right.

That’s the way I see it. Everybody is somebody. I thought—see, I never forget, my dad always told me, he said: “Never over nobody because White, Black, blue,





or green.” He say you could have a billion dollars, and ask for a drink of water, or bread, and you can’t get it. Ain’t no good to you. But if you mistreated somebody down the line, so the same thing, you mistreated; they might be able to, they won’t do it because you did them wrong. So try and treat everybody right.

Everybody’s somebody. You don’t agree with what everybody say, you disagree. But you still treat them right. See, we had an incident happen. See, my oldest daughter, and my stepson, they went to segregated school. And my middle daughter and my son, they went to integrated school. They all went to segregated school; integrated schools later on. When she didn’t, what she felt about the White race. I came home one day, this was what it is. My wife say my daughter went to Santa Fe before she went to the University of Florida, and she came home from class one day and brought two White girls. We were shocked. We didn’t say nothing. What she felt back in seventh, eighth, and ninth grade.

Well, we never said nothing about it. Didn’t say nothing about it. We were shocked. She had got dealing with them, and she felt different. But my other daughter, they always did have a different feeling when they integrate the school. And so when people think, they think different, they want to do things different.

But now she been working integrated school for years and years. She bought a home way off 39th, about thirty years ago. She worked and paid for it, then retired. My other daughter, she left here in 1980. Moved to [inaudible 58:15] where her husband was at, and they didn’t stay together; left the city and come back. She was [inaudible 58:24]; been working for the school board ever since.





They divorced; he remarried and got killed. Somebody shot through the car and killed him. Only thing, they wasn’t shooting at him. He got a stray bullet.

	S:	Stray bullet?



	B:	Mmhm. What you going do? We walk out this porch now, somebody could shoot through the wall and hit one of us. You never know. And always treat the little children—if you mistreat those little children walking down the street, they won’t forget you did them wrong. They’ll be men later on, they’ll say, “That old man there did me wrong a long time ago.” Like, kids around the neighborhood, they kept running over here they be hungry; Mary give them something. She give them food. We been doing that for years.

	S:	Do you think you do it because your parents did it? B:	Hm?

	S:	Do you think you help others with food and stuff because your parents—



	B:	Well, that was our policy. So what I never had that—and my wife did it, too. See, she did it. And I always felt you supposed to help people if you could. That’s the way I feel about life. You supposed to help when you can. I had this one guy now, went to that fraternity. He called me last week; he had lived in California. He been gone a long time. He’ll call me from long distance California to talk to me sometimes. He about forty-five now. See, he going come down this year for football games. He [inaudible 1:00:02]. He’ll call me about every couple months. See, I would cook in the fraternity, he’d come out here and eat and go on. I had some guys in there from India. They didn’t believe in God. And we'd always discuss the Bible, and one of them one day say to me, say: “Alvin, your parents





taught you about God. Our parents taught us about the [inaudible 1:00:33] cow. That what I believe in.” I didn’t bother no more. They would talk—I had one guy, where he from? He'd wait tables. He’d come in there, he first—I waited. He didn’t do no talking. Then we got real friendly, we'd talk. And so we told him, later on after he worked there—and see, I was talking, and [inaudible 1:00:57]. And he had one more semester at school. We had been around here a good while. He went home for—his home was Alabama, but his people lived in Illinois. He came back after Christmas, he told me, said, “Alvin, my parents cut my funds, I have no funds for my last year of school. But I’ve got an uncle,” he showed the letter to the uncle sending him money to finish school. And that letter say, “Your sister and brother went to school. They wasn’t brainwashed by a nigger. And so, let the nigger finish your finance.” But he showed that letter, and his uncle sent him money. He say just was telling them lot of the things that they had taught him, he worked around with us, and he found out it—it was about four of us together— that wasn’t like they were taught. And they got insulted. That’s life, though. You teach children certain things. I remember my little boy. During that time, we had a wood heater in the house then. And I was telling him one of the times, I say, “Don’t touch that heater. It hot.” He does feel it. He stand up, he had his hand out. And I went to turn it back, I turned to work on something, and he touched it. He say, “Hot, hot!” See, he wanted to find out for himself. But he touch that, he done found I was telling the truth. So you have to learn things for yourself. And it’s drinking ain’t no good, too. Too much drinking and partying. That why so many divorces, I think. They get high, and he mess around with that woman, and





she flirting at you and you flirting at her; it cause your marriage to break up. It’s so many things in life you have to overlook. I think my wife' parents were married pretty close to about sixty-seven, sixty-eight years before he died. And my parents were married sixty-four years, before one of them passed. We all going die. Everybody, I don’t care how much money you have, you going die. You’ll sure die. And they be talking about this race, that race; regardless, all your blood the same color. Red. And some people you would do a favor, they won’t do no favor to you. They don’t like you, they won’t do nothing for you, but they want you to do things for them. But we been on this corner here for a long time. At that house, next door there, I recognize those students moving in there. They be partying up something. They students. Monday night, partying and partying. I saw them talking loud, partying, they were drinking. I don’t know if they were snorting drugs or what, but they were making quite a noise.

	S:	Before, I asked if you had any regrets and you said you didn’t because you live life and that’s how it is, but are there any moments you think about where you wonder, “What if?” Like, “What if I had done this?”

	B:	Well, sometimes, I have thought about it. I applied to go to Florida A&M, and was accepted. I changed my mind, I didn't go.

	S:	How come?



	B:	I don't know, I changed my mind and I didn’t go. I was accepted too, I changed my mind and didn’t go. My sister graduated from A&M—it was “College” during that time. But I changed my mind, and I started working. I probably wouldn’t have met my wife, I would’ve met someone else. So, you never know. Never know. I





think she was thinking about going to that school too, and she didn’t end up going. She came out of high school in Alachua. We didn’t know one another in high school, we didn’t know one another. The girl that I was dating with, dating, she was young. Her mother died in [19]43, and in [19]45 her father died. I was in the Army then. And her sister came down to her funeral, and take them back up to New York with her. And she married somebody, and I married somebody. She died about two years ago. What if we had married?

	S:	You just mentioned that you were in the Army. You were in the Army?



	B:	Yeah, not long, but I was there for a while, mmhm. But that was, I got drafted, it was eighteen- and nineteen-year-olds, last part of World War II. Went on the train, was filled up with eighteen and nineteen-year-old guys. It was rough during that time. They would [inaudible 1:07:04] ground troops then. I’ll never forget, we had to—we left Fort Benning, Georgia, I don’t know how you far we had to walk. Long way. I couldn’t do that though. And we walked to a Black community. I’ll never forget: they were all sitting on their porch and stuff. They say, “That’s a shame, they just little boys.” They thought we was little boys, see? We not no boys. I heard them talking. Troop training, and we got to New Orleans about 4 o’clock that morning, and it started with—we went in the dining room to eat. Most of them didn’t go in the dining room. They were tired. One guy was—he dead now—he talked to me, called me “baby.” Out having training, he say, “What you doing here, baby?” I was surprised to see him there. He serving food. Yep. His twin brother was killed back there. He been dead around about twenty years. I met some other guys from here, too. And on the weekends, boy, them streets





down there be full of soldiers. Right out there where the airport at, that’s a Army base, Air Force base. See them come into town partying. Down in little places drinking their beer and stuff, and whiskey. And I think about how the women, some of them same women husbands in the Army, and then they party with other soldiers. They husbands gone off, they down with the other men. But the man, he out there doing the same thing. Maybe he in Germany, or Ohio, or California; he'd go to club, he’d pick up the women. Same thing. But nobody want to do it.

What’s good for one, good for the next, I guess. I watched the [inaudible 1:09:21] show a lot of the time, and more kids in basketball and things. They weren't change channel then, I get that a long time. I have four more over there, so. I [inaudible 1:09:42]. In jury case, they have all colors, they have court cases. How people want [inaudible 1:09:54] satisfied.

	S:	Speaking of TVs, did you have one growing up when you were younger, or—? B:	Huh?

	S:	Did you have a TV growing up?



	B:	Wasn’t no TVs when I was growing up. S:	When did you first get one?

	B:	Wasn't no—we didn’t have no radio when I grew up. My daddy got his first radio, it was a battery radio. And we got it in [19]41. I bet the radio was [19]43 or [19]44, that’s all we had. And I bought—with my wife, I bought our first TV in [19]51. It had an antenna outside the TV. Yup, things have changed so much.





	S:	Things have changed a lot, but do you think things are the same? Like, you mentioned before that there were parties and drugs then, and then there’s parties and drugs now. Did you notice any other similarities?

	B:	Well, when I was younger, they started—most of the drugs got bad when I was in my middle twenties, most of them were drinking moonshine, getting drunk. But the drugs got real bad in this area, one guy, real bad; all over this corner, guys be selling drugs and different things. And I’ve known quite a few people had they master’s—BS and master degree—that started on drugs and messed up everything they had. Lost everything they had. Married couples broke up on account of them drugs. Mmhm. Them drugs are something. The one thing, I was taught not to play them cards for money, but I did that. I thought, [inaudible 1:12:19] how to shoot dice and different things. But I never picked up drinking or smoking. [inaudible 1:12:28]. My parents didn’t drink or smoke, for one thing. I think my wife’ father would drink, but her mother didn’t drink. No. Some things children just do. Like, I’ll never forget, I shipped off, went to St. Augustine to see a girl one time. That show how stupid I was. I was in school then. I had five dollars, little bit I had. [inaudible 1:12:59] Dad put me on probation for six weeks. And I could go to school and back, but Momma kept talking, and she got me off it. After half time; I served half of the time. Another time, I remember Daddy told me plant some peas. Daddy went with them church men. When I finished planting those peas, I could go into town. I had my car, see. I planted half of them—show how you going thinking—and dug a hole in the row and buried the rest of them. I came home from school, he came out, say, [inaudible 1:13:40]. My





momma said, “Daddy going to kill you.” I said, “What I done?” “You got them boys out there talking, say you have a car, and [inaudible 1:13:57].” So I go, I saw him, I could tell he was angry. “Come here, boy!” So I walked behind him. I don’t what happening. We got over there where them peas I put in the hole—I should have thrown them in the woods, I could’ve thrown them in the woods— thinking that was going to work. He grabbed something and cut me good with it. Don’t have no sense, he try to help me out and I didn’t appreciate it. He put me on probation six weeks. Children do some wild things when they young, don’t you think?

	S:	So you had moments of being a wild child? B:	Huh?

	S:	You had moments of being the wild child?



	B:	Well, it’s, I don’t know. What happened—the one night, I was a boy, we walked on the road from church. We had to walk from [inaudible 1:15:01], across 75— wasn’t no 75 then, over there. We walked a long ways. Come back home, say, “Let’s go get some sugar cane.” My daddy have all kind of sugar cane. I went in the sugar cane fields. A man shot up there in that [inaudible 1:15:18]. Don’t worry about it, we wanted to get some. What was I stealing cane for, with all the cane my daddy had? See, children do things they not supposed to do. I wasn’t taught to do that. Over in that people’ watermelon field; my daddy had watermelon. And one night out there—every one of them boys dead, all of them dead now. And the school, two-room school, had a hundred and fifty posts. So, we put all the posts up around in the school, and put in front of that school door,





and the flag pole. My daddy was the supervisor there. Daddy say, “Alv?” He called me “Alv.” He say, “I hear, Herbert tell me—.” I said, “No sir, he wasn’t, we was together.” We was together, he was [inaudible 1:16:12]. And Herbert tell about he being there. I never tell Daddy nothing about that. Why I’m out there doing them different thing? Children do the wrong thing, some of them. Not what they taught. They do the wrong thing. My parents were good to me. They were good to me, and they could always be [inaudible 1:16:41], and on that nobody— no more than you can afford to give them. Because a lot of time, you lend a person something, they won’t pay you back. And they get angry, and same thing, you get angry. If you can’t afford to give it to them, don’t lend it to them. That’s a pretty good policy, too. There’s a man down the street there, [inaudible 1:17:05] two hundred dollars. We asked about it, “Don’t, I ain’t got no money!” She got kind of nasty with me.

	S:	Do you have any other more words of wisdom to impart? B:	Huh?

	S:	Anymore words of wisdom? Like, don’t lend what you don’t have, or anything like that?

	B:	What did you say now?



	S:	Any more words of wisdom like that?



	B:	All I’ve been doing is just treat people, treat everybody right. And when I treat you right, you still treat others right. I know some people like me now. They go out to church, but right now some of the same guys—if they would go to Ocala and take you back to town, I would pick them up bring them back to town. Know they don’t





like me, but I’ll do that. It’s important to be nice to people. I believe in that. Treat people nice, treat them right. I didn’t never like all that cussing, profane language. I never liked that. I been around it almost all my life, but I never—I don’t beleve in that. Like my wife, we ain’t never have no cussing spree the whole time. We’ve been angry a lot of times, but that cussing, we never did do that. I don’t believe in that.

	S:	Speaking of words and cussing, how do you feel about the "n" word, and stuff like that, and the term “Colored”?

	B:	You know, it’s a funny thing about the “n” word. We talk about it sometimes, especially in Sunday school. Now, you find Black people are calling one another “nigger.” They don't want a White person to call them “nigger.” But [inaudible 1:19:03]. And why them White people call another ‘cracker,’ but they don’t want the Black men call them that. So I wonder about that sometimes. But they’ve used that, that word used quite a bit. Mostly amongst one another, mmhm.

	S:	I remember yesterday I was reading a passage about Lincoln High School, in a dissertation from University of Florida, and it said, “In 1923, Lincoln High School was constructed. With its 15 classrooms and an auditorium seating 800, it provided adequate facilities for the Negro population of Gainesville at that time.” And someone had highlighted that part of the book and then in big letters they wrote, “No.” That at that time, it still wasn’t.

	B:	Lady lives in that house [inaudible 1:20:01], towards 8th Avenue? That lady, she do that in the historical society. She was one of the first classes that





graduated from Lincoln High School. She was. Well, she dead now. She was one of the first classmates—I think it was six of them, five or six of them.

	S:	I’m looking at the Sanborn maps, for example, of Lincoln High School. It still says that it was a Colored school, or just some terms that segregation that are still on the papers from that time.

	B:	Hm?



	S:	There’s just so many terms like “Colored” and “Negro” that are still in books from that time.

	B:	Yeah, they would say “Colored,” some would say “Black.” They used different terms. I know when my class—my class [inaudible 1:21:05] pictures. Well, that part of the school they blocked off, that was the front of the school then. The pictures taken right in front of that. They put bricks all across that part now. Not the front no more. And nobody know it now: we didn’t have no lunchroom when I was going to school. Wasn’t no lunchroom. Everybody brought they own little lunch.

	S:	Was it crowded at Lincoln, or—?



	B:	Well, we were pretty crowded at that time. We thought it was then. I’ll tell you, when I was in tenth grade, it was about eighty-some of us in tenth grade. And graduation time, it was about thirty-seven, thirty-eight of us. Most of the older boys, that class was older boys, they got drafted. See, I was seventeen when I come out of high school. And it was Dr. Floyd still living, he live out in California. He still living. Along the whole, I think three of us still living from that class. I ain’t seen Freddy, I bet, in forty years. He live out in California.





	S:	How many people actually graduated? B:	In my class?

	S:	Yeah.



	B:	Thirty-seven or thirty-eight.



	S:	And only three of them are still alive?



	B:	It was eighty-something in 10th grade, and the boys, they went to the Army and they flied, ‘cause they was going draft them. Got drafted. They didn’t have the rules they have now. We had one of the best football teams in this area for a long time. Because there wasn’t no age limit. One of them guys go to school on that football team, they’d drop out. Go back, some of them twenty-two, twenty-three years old, still doing high school football, they playing football. And Lincoln High School played Bethune-Cookman College one year. But the boys, they were adults, had to drop out of school. But the Army take care of that when the war started. When I left school, when I came out of high school, I weighed 142 pounds. I was real skinny, weighed 142.

	S:	When I graduated high school, I barely made 100. [Laughter]



	B:	I weighed 142, and I came out the Army and I weighed 172. I been up to 282, but I’m back down now about 235. I need to lose some more weight.

	S:	How long were you out of high school before you entered the Army?



	B:	Wasn’t too long. ‘Cause see, I was seventeen after I finished high school, and I wasn’t eighteen until December. And when I turned, I turned eighteen in December, I was drafted in [19]45. Before the war was over with, I was drafted. Lot of guys in there, too; young boys. I wonder about some guys I went to the





Army with sometimes. A lot of guys from Alabama, Mississippi, Ohio, different places. And most of them just had finished high school. I guess they—and I was in the Army with some guys from—Army was segregated. Some guys from [inaudible 1:25:19], they spoke Spanish. And I had to learn how to use some of the words, but I forgot after I got out of there. They could speak English and Spanish, see? And I learned a few of the words.

	S:	Well, I guess, is there anything you want to end with? B:	Huh?

	S:	Any comment you want to end with? Like, anything you felt that you wanted to say that you haven’t said?

	B:	Well, I just believe in treating my fellow man the way I want to be treated. Don’t care if White, Black, blue, or green, everybody supposed to be treated fairly.

Everybody have feelings. And not supposed to mistreat nobody. I just don’t believe in that. My parents, they believed in that. I was blessed, though, because I think about—we killed hogs. We had beef from year round in the smokehouse hanging up. Had syrup, jelly, and had all that food there. It was going—we had sweet potatoes, potatoes, had plenty of chicken, ducks. Something killed all my chickens. I like them chickens, something killed all my chickens except four. I may buy me some more. Something get in my chicken yard, eat them up. Killed them all but four, before they finally was blocked out. I need to buy me some more. I like to have chickens out there. I went up there yesterday, I took the last buck. We finally found the last hole. The top of the pen and everything. I’m going get me about ten or fifteen more hens. I like to have me some chickens. I get out





there and ride that tractor, my hip [inaudible 1:27:22]. I ride home back here. My nephew say he know how to do it. He blew the motor up in it, turned it upside- down, and all the oil came out, and it started [inaudible 1:27:53] and blew the motor out. We got two riding mower out there in the country. So I went and bought me a push mower, and we got to mow the lot over here. I sure hate that that guy messed my mower up.

[Break in recording]



	S:	You wake up one morning, have your birthday, and then wake up the next morning, you have Christmas.

	B:	Mmhm. But during that time, they had to put the tree, they put all of the presents under the Christmas tree. And in the country, they had those Christmas plays.

They’d have a play, out there in the church, you have a tree, and people have presents under it. It was different than the way they do it now.

	S:	Do you have any hobbies that you’ve done over the years? B:	What’d you say?

	S:	Hobbies or anything like that?



	B:	I liked to hunt when I was younger. S:	What’d you hunt?

	B:	Well, I went hunting at night, raccoons and all those different things. We’d go hunting at night, raccoon, and opossum, all those different things that roam at night. Rabbits and things in the daytime. We’d do all that; fishing too. We fished a lot. We have a—on the lakefront, near the lake, my daddy’d catch bass that long out there. We still have a lake right on. And we’d clear the end for dying weeds,





and go all over the lake. The state purchased the lake back; they got a big old, what you might call a dell, or what you call it? For people to walk across, walk down there. They ain’t completed it yet. Out on side the lake, and I fished and walked beside the lake. Well see, I loved always walking. I used to walk over all them woods, wouldn’t be tired. I was young then, see? You get older, make a difference.

[Break in recording]



And he never did see his brothers no more. He had seven brothers, he never see them no more. And I attended a funeral several years back, and the chief of police here, his dad, his momma, his mother's father—he came from Springwood, South Carolina. And they were Butlers. I don’t know if the same Butlers or not. But they came from the same area. But see, with communication then, it different now. You couldn’t make any communication. But he knew he had seven more brothers, never see them no more. See, nowadays you just call all over the country and find your people. And so they end up down here by Micanopy, where we in Kirkwood. Micanopy where they end up at. And the slave master’s son—my daddy would tell me about this, I don’t know—he said before he left to go, he had to saddle the horse up for him at night. He’d go off, he’d come back in about 3 or 4 o’clock in the morning. And one particular morning, he came in, and the horse just wet all over. And the horse died. And he told his boss that his daddy did it, that my great, great granddaddy had the horse. And they whipped him with a buggy whip. They whipped his back up and all that with that whip. He say when he got drafted into the Union army during the war, and he





[inaudible 1:32:08], they was trying to live there on the plantation. And he had got killed in the war. He was happy he got killed, because he wasn’t going be whipped for nothing. He was glad he got beat up for nothing. A lot of things happened to people. So what happened, he had a record. He registered to vote in 1882. And his son bought a forty-acre tract of land, and therefore we have land over there. And one fourth of the land, [inaudible 1:32:55]. He bought forty acres for $75, and he sold it later on for $100. And land, things have changed so much, the price of it. Like my parents when they bought that home, the house that they have now, they bought more land to go with it, but when they bought that, they paid $350 for it at the time. They had the house to be done over, but see, that would be nominal on that land now, three hundred fifty dollars. Things have just changed so much. I remember when I was a boy, he was boarding logs; they didn’t have all this hydraulic stuff. They’d have four mules out there.

They’d slide up on a boxcart, it would fall in the boxcart. And when they shipped all the things like lettuce, the mold grow bad, all those beans; they had those refrigerated cars. They’d put big blocks of ice in it. On the end here and the end there, they’d get inside and pack all the beans and things up there, get inside and chip ice up all over. They going up north to Maryland and Philadelphia, different places. They were sending that stuff up there, north, shipping it. I’ll never forget my daddy would ship to a Mr. Jones, you see, but daddy, he said, “Hey C.C., y’all ain’t be treated right.” My neighbor was telling his son this, and my daughter didn’t, they all didn’t want it: you see a difference, they’ll forget. They got fifty cent more a hamper from the one what their name was on, than what he got.





See, they give the money to him, I be saying, but that’s how much different it was. My daddy paid more for that car. He bought that [19]29 Model A Ford. He told me he paid more for it than the White guy across the road there who had bought one. He bought his a month different, and he paid a hundred dollars less than him, than my daddy did. A lot of this just went on, though. Plenty of it.

Back during that time, they would kill cows in all the stores around here in the Black community. And people would go out and butcher them cows, and bring a quarter to this store, and that store, that store. And they would give the ox tail away, and the head, when they get that, give it away. But now, oxtail is real high now. And they throw the head away. But ain’t nothing free now, hardly.

Everything out there changed. They had a party over there the other night. I don’t know what. I was sitting on the porch. I don’t know how they do it, they were saying so all of them talk at one time. Boy, they was talking, and they were high too. They were drinking their beer and stuff. Having fun, though. You have fun; you get old, you can't have it. Probably sleeping now. I got a meeting to go to later on.

	S:	Well, I’m done unless you have anything else you want to add.



	B:	I don’t guess so. I can talk a long time. [Laughter] A week or two ago another bank called. A man knew the cemetery, and I probably would give him money for it, and I gave it to him in the morning the first day. The bank close by six o’clock, though. I get it in the morning now. You know, to clean the cemetery, move some limbs and different things? Out there, out the cemetery, at the church right there by Sam. You know where Sam’s at? On 13th Street? Back in there. Somebody





take me through all that trash, it was all part of the cemetery. Had to pay to have it removed. See, when you’re an adult you have to pay it. Same place you’re going. That’s where you go. It’s amazing now. It be true that [inaudible 1:38:00] running fast, but the other part of the house is real cool. So I haven’t been out here, see?

	S:	This used to be an open porch that you closed in? B:	Mmhm, I closed this in.

[End of interview]





	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, April 9, 2019