AAHP 550; Harris; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 550 Duchess Harris

Interviewed by Juliette Barbera, Nicole Yapp, and Nicole Williams on February 8, 2018

29 minutes | 16 pages



Abstract: Dr. Duchess Harris, grew up in New England. This interview was conducted while she was visiting UF for a speaking engagement through the African American Studies Program. She describes some of her experiences growing up in Connecticut, as well as some of her wider family history. She also describes her experiences in graduate school in getting both a JD and PhD. Much of the interview focuses on her research and teaching as an American Studies and Legal Studies scholar, including her book Black Lives Matter, her publications in academic journals such as La Raza Law Journal, and some of her favorite materials to use in the classroom—ranging from classic authors like Lorraine Hansberry and James Baldwin to more recent works by authors like Ta-Nahesi Coates and Pauline Gumbs.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; African American Studies; Legal Studies; Black Lives Matter]



AAHP 550

Interviewee: Duchess Harris

Interviewer: Juliette Barbera, Nicole Yapp, Nicole Williams Date: February, 8, 2018



B:  So I am Juliette with the Oral History program. Y:  I’m Nicole Yapp with the Oral History program. W:  I am Nicole Williams.

B:  And this is February, 8, 2018, and we’re with— H:  Professor Duchess Harris.

B:  Okay, can you spell your name for us? H   Sure D-U-C-H-E-S-S, H-A-R-R-I-S.

	B:	When and where were you born?



	H:	I was born in Newport News Virginia in 1969.



	Y:	Did you have any siblings when you were growing up?



	H:	Yes. I am the youngest of four. My oldest sister’s name is Karol with a K, and she was born in [19]54. My brother Joe was born in 1957, and my sister Judy was born in 1963.

	B:	What is your mother and father’s name?



	H:	My legal name is actually Miriam, so I’m named after my mother. Her name is Miriam. She’s eighty-two. My father passed away almost eleven years ago. His name was Frank.

	Y:	What was it like growing up in Virginia?



	H:	Actually I moved from Virginia to New England when I was two, so I grew up mostly in Massachusetts and Connecticut. When I think of home I think of Windsor, Connecticut. It was a town of probably about 30,000 people, it would be





considered solidly middle class and racially mixed. It touches the capital of Connecticut, which is Hartford.

	B:	Do you wanna tell us a little bit more about your childhood maybe or touch upon that?

	H:	Sure! So I lived where I lived in Connecticut, because it was right next to the airport. My dad was an air traffic controller. I was raised in a Black Catholic church called Saint Michael’s on the north end of Hartford where a lot of Civil Rights activity had happened. I understand it’s just closed recently or is in the process of closing. I won an academic scholarship to go to a boarding school about an hour and a half away from my house. So that’s where I went to high school ninth to twelfth grade, and then after that I went to college in Philadelphia.

	B:	Did being in that town influence your scholarship at all? Or…?



	H:	I think the stories of my mother influenced my scholarship. My mother grew up raising me on the stories of Hampton, Virginia and the stories of her mother, which is how I wrote my fourth book, which is called Hidden Human Computers. My grandmother was in the entering class of Black women that worked at NASA, which meant that she actually got there in 1943, she was in the first group of eleven. In so, even though I grew up in New England I grew up with lots of southern sensibilities. I knew all about historically Black colleges. My grandparents are buried on the campus of Hampton University, which used to be called Hampton Institute. So that had a great shaping of my childhood.

	B:	And to touch upon your grandparents, what were their names and—





	H:	My grandfather was William S.[Inaudible at 3:27] Mann. I can’t remember which number. I can’t remember if he was junior or senior. I’m not sure, there are a lot of them. I think my cousin is the third or fourth. I’m not sure. He was on the faculty of Hampton, he actually attended Hampton. He was born in that area in 1903; they were from the Spotswood plantation. In Spotswood was the first lieutenant governor of Virginia. He was from Scotland. My grandmother’s name was Miriam Daniel Mann. She was originally from Covington, Georgia, and she went to college at Talladega College in Alabama and met my grandfather in Covington, and then married him, and then moved to Hampton Virginia.

	W:	I saw that when you initially told people about you grandmother and the other women who worked for NASA that they didn’t believe you. Can you tell us a little bit about that experience?

	H:	Sure. I mean part of that is in some ways it was still illegal, and so what I mean by that is that FDR signed executive order 8802, which desegregated federal jobs, so that’s how they were allowed to be employed there. But Brown v. Board of Education, which desegregated space, didn’t happen until eleven years after that, and so there was an issue of them actually being on the grounds of NASA, which is why the metaphor “hidden” was chosen, because they were put in an area where the White women weren’t working, so people wouldn’t see them. So people who worked at NASA would say, “Well, it can’t be true. I never saw any Black women working there.” So that’s part of it.

	W:	Was it difficult doing research for the book?





	H:	Actually because I was raised by my mother in some ways it was easy. She’s sharp as a tack and has like an amazing memory, and lots of photos. We even found a newspaper clipping form the Norfolk Journal Times, which is the Black Newspaper from Norfolk, Virginia, with a picture of my grandmother and the entering class. And so I knew which questions to ask and where to look.

W:  So I saw the movie I haven’t gotten a chance to read the book yet, but would you say that the movie was really accurate? And did they consult you when they were making that?

	H:	The movie was somewhat accurate and also for the time period; the movie is [19]61 and [19]62. My grandmother already been there almost twenty years. So her experience was different from the women that they portrayed in the movie. She knew all of them. My mother actually had her high school graduation party in Mary Jackson’s house who is played by Janelle Monáe. My family was friends with Mrs. Vaughn, they knew her very well, and of course Katherine Johnson is still alive. So for that particular moment, for the most part, it was accurate.

	B:	I know that you study American History and African American Studies. Is there anything that might have influenced that for you? To do that career?

	H:	I think that it’s party generational. I went to college in 1987, which was either the year or the year after the PBS documentary Eyes on the Prize came out. There was a time when people were really talking about the Civil Rights movement, because it was the most recent thing that happened. When I was in the tenth grade Jesse Jackson ran for president, and so Black politics was very much present during that time period, and I was just impacted by that. It just moved





me. I did not think this would be my career choice. I actually went to college to be an orthodontist, which is the funniest thing in the world to me. If you knew my personality, I’m not patient enough to put my hands in people’s mouths, so it was probably a good career choice that I didn’t do that. It’s been a good fit.

	B:	Was the school that you went to — did it have an African urban studies department? Or was it a program at the time?

	H:	It was actually amazing. So I attended the University of Pennsylvania. The thing that impacted me the most was that I was in the first cohort of Mellon Mays Undergraduate fellows, which is a program now that started in [19]89. And so it’s almost thirty-years-old now, and what that program does is like match you with a mentor to help you think about becoming a professor. So my mentors were Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham who’s now the president of African American life and History organization on the faculty of Harvard. My other mentor was Dr. Mary Francis Berry who’s the first Black woman that I ever met that had a law degree and a PhD. It didn’t even occur to me that you could have both and do both, and help me think about what legal history is, so I thought that was fascinating. And I had fourteen classes with Black professors when I was in college, which is kind of amazing if I took thirty-two classes that fourteen of them were Black people.

And so that the idea that Black people could think was transformative.



	Y:	So I wanna go back to what you said about pursing a JED and a PhD. Did you pursue a JED with the idea of like becoming a lawyer? Or just to become knowledgeable about legal history?





	H:	Just to become knowledgeable about the law. So I went to law school after I got tenure, and so my career was pretty much a straight line. I graduated from college in [19]91. I went straight to graduate school. I got my PhD in [19]97. I started my tenure track job in [19]98, and then I got tenure you’d consider I guess like January of [20]04. So I didn’t matriculate into law school until… I must have gone, this is funny I can’t remember if I matriculated in [20]07 [20]08. I think [20]07, and so I went after tenure. I knew I was going to remain a professor. I already taught critical race theory, but I wanted a better understanding of critical race theory, and so that’s why I went to law school, and I’m glad that I did.

	W:	Do you think it’s helped your teaching a lot going to law school?



	H:	Yeah, I mean I remember the first time that I taught and entire Race in Law class for ninety minutes and didn’t use any notes. I realized, “Oh, I must really know this.” Right? So when I started my career, my notes looked like a dictionary, like I had to look down; there were so many things I had to reference. And that was a moment where I realized, “Oh I really get this.” And I actually taught at a law school one summer session, which is very different. The students are very different, but that helped me also feel like I was getting an expertise.

	W:	Can you tell us a little bit about your work with the Law Raza [Law] Journal?



	H:	Sure. So that was one of things that I loved about being in law school. At the time maybe that was like 2010, 2009, 2010 where academic journals were going online, which was kind of new. Some people at the time didn’t think that real scholarship happened online, which for the younger generation that would make no sense to them. But it was a very big deal that it would be taken seriously and





be online. To give you an idea, the U.S. Supreme Court started their Race in the Law blog within the year of us starting our journal. So it was the first online interactive journal about race. And it was fun and exciting, and we published, I humbly think, some interesting things. I published a piece about a swimming pool that asked Black children not to swim there as recently as the Obama administration. So they were kicked out, then there was a big court case, and they ended up winning in a huge settlement. The premise of the article was basically: what does desegregation mean if people aren’t in compliance with it?

So just because space is supposed to be integrated doesn’t mean people want it to be and will allow it to be, and do we have to sue to make sure that desegregation exists?

	B:	One question I had was that, I know in within your field of legal studies and American studies all there’s like critical race theory component. Do you still feel that you have to justify your area of research or is that a problem?

	H:	It depends. I’ve been at my college twenty-three years now, and I was awarded the highest rank of full professor almost five years ago, so I feel like they value my work. If you look within higher education, the academy, the ivory tower, there’s still tremendous intellectual debate about if this work is valuable or not. But I honestly don’t tend to spend a lot of time around those people. I usually accept offers like this so the University of Florida invites me to speak, and I think I’m gonna be welcomed, I’d say yes.

	B:	Can you tell us about your book Black Lives Matter? You made it for the younger generation. Can you tell us a little bit about it?





	H:	Sure, sure. So that has been one of the most important things that’s happened in my career is publishing the Black Lives Matter book in the fall of 2015. It was an opportunity that I stumbled upon. It wasn’t my idea initially. Initially it had a single author, her name was Sue Bradford Edwards who is a White women who’s a journalist from Florissant, Missouri. I ended up becoming her co-author. The book got a lot of attention, originally almost all negative attention, and then that turned around and then it got very positive attention. The whole experience inspired me to write for young people, because the book was written for sixth to twelfth graders. So now I actually have an exclusive contract with the publisher, which is ABDO Publishing; they’re located in Edina, Minnesota where they have named an imprint after me, which is profoundly flattering. And so we having something called the Duchess Harris collection where we put out books for third to sixth graders and sixth to twelfth graders. And so we’ll probably put out twenty- four books a year, twelve for each age group.

	B:	How do you decide on the topics? Like what’s that process like?



	H:	Oh my gosh! It is the most fun process in the world, actually. [Laughter] So we go into a planning meeting and the editorial team is separate from ABDO publishing, so they’re called Red Line Editorial, they’re located in Mendota Heights, Minnesota. We meet in the ABDO offices, so it’s the leadership team there. And what I do is I pitch the ideas and then we discuss them. So for instance my next group of books that will be come out in 2019 will be called Freedom’s Promise, and Freedom’s Promise will be a collection of twelve books for third to sixth graders. And I presented my ideas and nine of them out of the twelve are





singularly my ideas, and then three of them were some compromises, partly from marketing, because it’s a publishing company and they definitely want some work that will sell. So you know that’s the world of business, but it’s a lot of fun.

	W:	What would you say is the favorite class that you’ve ever taught?



	H:	I’m teaching my favorite class this semester. I’ve been teaching this class now for more than twenty years. In fact, classes started three weeks ago, and I asked how many students were born in 1997 and about a third of the class raised their hand. [To Nicole Yapp] I see you smiling. Were you born in [19]97? And I said, “That’s the first year I taught the class, so if you were born after that, then I’ve been teaching this class longer then you’ve been alive,” and the class is called Black Public Intellectuals. I update the class. Some of the intellectuals I teach now were not considered intellectuals twenty years ago, because they hadn’t made their careers. In fact, one would be in high school. But this semester I’m teaching it World War II to the present, and we’re starting off with Richard Wright’s Native Son and then we do James Baldwin’s The Fire Next Time, then we do Lorraine Hansberry’s A Raisin in the Sun. After that, we transition into Malcom X and Angela Davis, and then the newest work that we’re doing is something called Spill, which is a work that references Hortense Spillers’s work. Hortense Spillers now is retired literary phenomenal scholar, and this book is written by Alexis Pauline Gumbs who still in her thirties. And so we will be looking at her work, and then we’ll close it out with Ta-Nehisi Coates’s work Between the World and Me. What the students have already learned is that “Between the World and Me” was a poem that Richard Wight wrote. So it’s playing on that, our





first book, and then stylistically it’s the same framework as The Fire Next Time that James Baldwin wrote, because, Baldwin is writing to his nephew about the March on Washington. Ta-Nehisi Coates is writing to his son about Ferguson. And so it’s partly how intellectuals influence each other.

	B:	A lot of the projects you mention has like practical implications, so like the article you mentioned that got attention about the desegregation of pools and the Law Raza Legal Journal, and these classes, books that you’re doing. Is there anything that throughout your life inspired you to maybe make sure that it’s a tangible thing that comes out of your work?

	H:	Sure. I think what can happen in higher ed[ucation] is that you get eighteen-year- olds and you ask them to care about something that they can’t figure out how it applies to them. I think that that’s probably not a good idea. [Laughter] I have three kids of my own. As we’re doing this interview they are nineteen, fourteen, and eleven. It’s a tough age group. It’s tough to ask young people to care about things that don’t have a practical application. And so I have found that that’s really the way to bring your audience in. Now my Undergraduate Degree is history. I believe in history. I believe in teaching the nineteenth century, but I think if students can’t figure out how the nineteenth century connects till today, you might lose them.

	B:	Another question I had was: you mentioned some of your family history. Do you recall any stories that were shared with you when you were younger?

	H:	Yeah. It’s funny, my mom is really a storyteller and she’d tell me things all the time, but I was a typical kid. Like I look at my kids now and see what it’s like





when you’re the kid. It didn’t matter to me until I went to college. And part of it was that I was young and I didn’t get it. My eleven-year-old could care less what I do. So it’s like he doesn’t realize how unusual this is, and he probably won’t for another ten years.

	B:	You mentioned the Historically Black Colleges that your grandparents went to and also the plantation. I don’t know if you have any stories around some of those things within your family that you might wanna share?

	H:	I mean sure. For instance, this links to the swimming pool article. I must have published that maybe in 2010, I would have published that. My mom was a champion swimmer, and so I didn’t really understand what that meant until I was an adult. Swimming pools were segregated for a very long time, like swimming pools were segregated up until like the 1970s and [19]80s in some places. My mom was born in 1936. For a Black person her age to know how to swim is completely unheard of. I didn’t understand that when I was younger. She was able to swim because she grew up on Hampton’s campus and they had a pool. And so I heard all these stories about what a great swimmer she was, and I was like “Who cares” right? But I didn’t realize that. When I was growing up, you could go to public pool, which was one of the reasons why I felt like I needed to write that article. I was like, “What does it mean that it’s like 2008 or 2009 and kids can’t go to a public pool?” Like this feels like we’re going back. And so I work with those kinds of stories. You just don’t understand them until you’re an adult.

	B:	Any additional questions to ask?





	Y:	Going back to your most recent book, what do you think is the importance of telling this story from the perspective of your grandmother, as opposed to just seeing it on film, like with Hidden Figures?

	H:	One of the ways that my book is different is that the movie just focuses on the NASA in Hampton; the Langley NASA. There are actually ten NASAs, and so my book takes into account Cape Canaveral; Huntsville, Alabama. I was fortunate in August, I got to speak at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, like that NASA. And so just the whole notion that there’s all these different NASAs, but out of the ten of them, eight had been in the segregated south, and they’d all tapped into the knowledge of Historically Black Colleges to get their work done. And they had to do that starting in World War II, not the [19]60s, because the men who were working at NASA were deployed. They went to war. And so it left this emptiness where there weren’t enough employees to do the work, and so they had to go on these college campuses, and then they found women to do this work. I think that Hollywood is great, but I think that they’re like deep intellectual questions that needed to be answered that I wanted to happen in this book. For instance, when the opens up they’re broken down on the street, a police officer comes along and you see that they’re going to NASA. The movie doesn’t pose the question, “How did they get that job? How in 1961 are you a Black woman with a job at NASA that’s not the janitor or in the kitchen? How did they even get that job?” There’s no narrative of Historically Black Colleges in that movie. What they have Mary Jackson do is petition to go to Hampton High, which my fundamental question is that, “Did Hampton high have a curriculum that Hampton Institute didn’t?” I doubt





it very much. So I’m not even sure if that’s how that happened. But all of those women went to Historically Black Colleges, including Katherine Johnson, but of course she’s ninety-nine years old. Higher ed[ucation] wasn’t desegregated then. So my book is more in depth, because it’s a teaching tool, and it also has curriculum that goes with it. And the movie obviously has value because what the movie does it makes it like everyday knowledge. So two years ago no one had heard of this, now, even if you haven’t seen the movie you’ve heard of it. But what the book does is explain it.

	Y:	Any additional questions?



	B:	You said that you wrote this book for the sixth to twelfth grade. What was the significance of making it for that age group?

	H:	Partly it was the book that I did after the Black Lives Matter book. I had a great relationship with that publisher, my manuscript was almost done, and I wanted the book to come out before the movie. I started doing my research in 2013, and so the publisher promised me that they could get it out before the movie, and I thought that it would be great to speak to young people. Even though it makes for a great lesson plan for one undergraduate class.

	B:	So at this point in the interview we leave it open if there’s anything we didn’t discuss that you might wanna touch upon. We can discuss that.

	H:	Not really. This is just fun, this is exciting. I’m gonna be archived. [Laughter] W:	I wanted to talk a little bit about the lecture you’re giving tonight.

	H:	Sure. So tonight I’m gonna talk about the Hidden Human Computers book, and I’m going to contextualize how the women the women got there. I’m gonna talk





about how segregated the space was. I’ll have a picture of the diagram of the dining hall where they ate when they were allowed to leave the building, because for the first ten years my grandmother worked there, she had to eat at her desk, and not leave and be hidden. And then when they were able to leave the building at first they were in colored dinning before the dinning got desegregated. So that will be one of the things that I talk about, and then I’ll actually bring up the controversial issue that working class Black people were actually not impressed with the NASA program, because they didn’t have access to it. So I’ll talk about that, too.

	Y:	When you say they don’t have access, do you wanna explain a little bit more?



	H:	Well you needed a college education, and so I’ll talk about Gil Scott-Heron who recently passed away, who was a spoken word artist. Who had a song that was very popular called “Whitey on the Moon” and a lot of people don’t know what “Whitey on the Moon” was about, but it was an indictment of the NASA program. He felt like taxpayers’ dollars were put into us going to outer space, and that what you really had for the most of Black Americans was urban decay and inner city poverty that no one was paying attention to. And people in those spaces wouldn’t have even thought about being able to work at NASA, because you needed a four year degree. You’re not going to see that in the movie.

[Laughter]



	W:	I guess my last question would be: you said you’ve been teaching for such a long—

	H:	Twenty-three years, yeah.





	W:	What do you think has been the biggest difference in how people respond to your lecture and your books from then till now?

	H:	Well I haven’t always had books right? Let’s see how long have I had books? I published my first book eight and a half years ago, so my career has really taken off, because now I have thirty. So if you met me ten years ago you wouldn’t have wanted to interview me, because I wouldn’t have had any books. I think the way students respond differently to me now is when I first started teaching I was four years older than the seniors. Now, I’m their mom’s age. And so I just get a certain level of deference, because I’m of a certain age. And I know my craft better now. So like I said, when I first went into the classroom, I was looking stuff up as I went and there was no such thing as wireless internet either, so you’re just flipping through pages hoping you can figure it out. And now I basically can recall most of it from my head.

	W:	What do you think is the biggest difference in how they respond to the material, like do you think they have more of a curiosity for it now than before or do you think it’s about the same?

	H:	It ebbs and flows right? Sometimes when my classes are super popular, like right now my class is really popular again. But there was a time when there was a dip, and I think sometimes is has to do with the economy, sometimes it has to with career trends, who’s holding national office. What’s interesting is that when Obama was president there were people who were like, “Well, we’re good. Why are we talking about race stuff? Obama’s president!” As an older person I can





see that that wasn’t really gonna hold, and now here I am at the highest enrollment I’ve had in a really long time.

	B:	So I guess we can close off the interview. H:	Awesome!

	B:	That’s all our questions. So thank you so much on behalf of the Sam Proctor.



Thank you for talking with us.



	H:	Sure! This was fun.





	Transcribed by:	Kasamba Kokayi, June 27, 2019 Audit-Edited by:	Jennifer Romero, July 25, 2019 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 20, 2020