AAHP 577; Rogers; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 577 Nina Rogers Interviewed by Alisa Kessler on April 10, 2001

42 minutes | 22 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Ms. Nina Rogers discusses coming to Lee County in 1965 as well as her memories of Dunbar during the time. She then goes into detail abut teaching in Lee County, including Dunbar Elementary School, J. Colin School and Calusa Elementary. Ms. Rogers talks about both Dunbar High School and Dunbar Middle School and their significance to the community.



Keywords: [African American History; Integration; Education; Fort Meyers ;Dunbar, Florida; Fort Meyers High School; Lee County]



Standards

	SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.

	SS.912.A.7.8 Analyze significant Supreme Court decisions relating to integration, busing, affirmative action, the rights of the accused, and reproductive rights.



AAHP 577

Interviewee: Nina Rogers Interviewer: Alisa Kessler Date: April 10, 2001



	K:	Hi, I’m Alisa Kessler and today’s date is April 10th, 2001 and I’m here with Nina Denson-Rogers to interview her for a research project I am doing to earn my Bachelors of Art in History. The topic and purpose of this interview is to obtain a firsthand account of the development and changes of educational opportunities in the Dunbar area. Upon the conclusion of this project I will donate all tapes and a copy of the final paper to the Lee County Black History Society Incorporated to be included in their museum archives. This tape and any sequential shall be used by any person requesting to do research for educational purposes. Nina do you accept and agree to the present and future generations utilizing your information.?

	R:	I think that’s just great what you’re doing.



	K:	I’d like to thank you for the opportunity of this interview. Will you please state and spell your first and last name.

	R:	Nina. N-I-N-A. Then Rogers. R-O-G-E-R-S.



	K:	Thank you. What is your current address?



	R:	3740 Eddison Avenue, Fort Myers, Florida, 33916. K:	When and where were you born?

	R:	I was born in a little town near Deland, Florida. I always say Deland but its Glenwood, Florida and I was born March 8th, 1941.

	K:	When did you come to Lee County?





	R:	Came to Lee County in the August of 1965. My first teaching year here in Lee County.

	K:	How old were you?



	R:	Twenty something. Twenty one- twenty-two, like that. Long, long time ago. K:	What street did you live on?

	R:	At that time I lived right, if you kind of visualize, on Sutton Street, it was about from where we are now about four or five blocks. We lived, when we came down here in what used to be a church’s parsonage. A big, big house. Big wooden house, and of course it later was destroyed because they were building on that street, they tore the street up and widened it. And it’s Evans Avenue over on the other side. It’s now big, running into other streets.

	K:	What do you remember about Dunbar then?



	R:	Dunbar at the time I thought was a beautiful school and I just thought it was magnificent that it was still standing because it was built way in 1927 and I came in the [19]60s. And I always thought it was a magnificent school for Blacks. Wish that they have had other schools besides the one– well they had one more Franklin Park, but anyway I thought it was a very nice school for Blacks at the time when I first started teaching

	K:	What about the community? How was the community?



	R:	Community was for Blacks; fine. My little place where I came from was much bigger, I can say Deland was much smaller than Ft. Myers so I would say it was,





it was pretty good because you had different things that you could get to. I walked to school when I first came ‘cause I didn’t have a car so I thought it was kind of nice to get from one end to the other and of course now, Unh-uh, can’t do that. I need a car.

	K:	Do you remember Dunbar ever being called Safety Hill?



	R:	Yes. When I came it was not called that but I remember people told me about Safety Hill and there are two reasons Mr. Johnson tells me. One of them is that the elevation is supposed to be much higher in Lee County than other parts of Lee County and the other one Blacks tack something on it is that if a cop or [Laughter] came after any person that was running from the policemen, they could run because at that time it was a lot of wooded area in the trees in thing. So they would run into those sections and be safe so they called it Safety Hill.

	K:	What schools did you teach at in Lee County?



	R:	I started at Dunbar Elementary School and when it became integrated I went to



J. Colin School in North Fort Myers, from there Calusa Elementary. I taught reading there to children who were having trouble reading. That was called, well they’ve changed it two or three times, at that time it was the ESOL program. ESOL and it was Chapter One Reading, I think the last time that’s what it was called. Then the last teaching place I went to was Sunshine Elementary School in Lee High Acres and that’s where I retired in 1995. June 9th, 1995

	K:	Who were some of your fellow teachers? R:	When I first came or later? Just any time?





	K:	Any time in the time periods.



	R:	Kelly Lawrence was one of my fellow teachers and now she is a principal at Alva Elementary. Had a teacher by the name of Barnes and she still in, I think middle school. Had Gladys Cowens, she’s retired. Maola Nixon, she’s retired. Let’s see, Jacob Johnson, he’s retired. Let’s see– and the very first names of some of the names have escaped me but I had a few of them that commuted up to the school also but a lot of them are still– Constance Davis was one. She’s out of the city. I think she is a principal at Sarasota.—

	K:	Hey, sorry for the interruption. Somebody came in. You were telling me about your fellow teachers that you were working with.

	R:	And one of the teachers I can remember is the daughter of one of the school principals’. Mr. Barker’s daughter. Can recall her first name but I just remembered– it’s starting to come back to me. Can’t get it. But anyways she was one of the young teachers who started out in 1965. Davees. Ida Davees was one of the other teachers, she had been there before. Evelyn Jones, now one or two are coming back. Minnie Edie, yeah she’s one and we had one of the teachers by the name of Goldman. Had one, Moses, and I can’t remember the other two gentlemen. I can see their faces but I can’t remember their names right now. And that was some of the teachers.

	K:	What can you tell me about the other schools in Dunbar before 1969?



	R:	Before [19]69? We had another Black one that was Franklin Park but we didn’t have another Black school besides Dunbar. Of course there had been the





William’s Academy and that was way, way back but it had closed somewhere in the [19]50s and that school became for other things. Like one time it was a daycare but later it was a storage building. Now the White schools, I couldn’t tell you anything about them until [19]69-[19]70, and that’s when I went to teach at some of them but not before that. Those were the only Black schools that I could tell you about.

	K:	What did the community schools do about overcrowding? Did they send students to another location?

	R:	Black schools? Talking about Black schools? K:	Yes.

R:  No, we just had to put up with the overcrowd– when I first came I had forty-five children in third grade. I started teaching in third grade and my enrollment was forty-five children.

K:  What can you tell me about Dunbar middle school and were there two different Dunbar High schools?

	R:	Not at the same time. The very first Dunbar High School was located on high street and that was from 1927 all the way up to about 1962. After that they built what they called a new Dunbar high school and that was [19]62 up until the integration which was about [19]69-[19]70 school year. But it was located on Edison Avenue and they did not occur at the same time. They were after each other. When the new Dunbar was in session, then the other Dunbar was either junior high school or something. When I came in 1965 it was an elementary





school so that’s where I started work so that’s how I know from [19]65 all the way up to [19]69-[19]70 it was an elementary classroom. But they’ve had it before other classrooms and one or two years before that it was elementary because Mrs. Starward was the principal from about [19]59 up to about [19]64 before I ever came to Fort Myers.

	K:	The school on Edison?



	R:	That is a magnet school today. Ah, not a magnet school, a middle– nah I take it back, as of last year it was a middle school. This year, starting 2001, it is back to a high school. It is called Dunbar High School again and it has gone through many, many different changes. When it was not a high school it was a middle school and now from middle to high school. Yes. I was just forgetting that and the principal this year is Burnside and he was trying to get some things like the colors that Dunbar used to be, which is orange and green. Trying to get I think a band but it is, the school goes up to like— it started out with ninth grade this year and they were going to build one more grade of high school on until they get to twelfth grade. Next year they’ll have a tenth grade, the next eleventh, and until they get to twelfth grade. I wish they would hurry up and get them so they will have a band for the Dunbar Festival Committee. We are missing bands in our Easter parade.

	K:	When did the schools start to get integrated in Lee County?





	R:	1969. That school year [19]69-[19]70 I believe it was. Or it might’ve been [19]68- [19]69 but I know [19]69 had to be the very beginning of the integration for Lee County.

	K:	Did your family ever attend any special occasions at Dunbar High Schools?



Either one of them?



	R:	No.



	K:	What are your memories of the impact Dunbar High School had made on the community?

	R:	The impact was a tremendous impact because they even started calling the community Dunbar when the school became there because everybody I think looked at the school as something they were very, very proud of and they thought that the teachers, I think, were dedicated people trying to help the children. And they all got something. Now I’m very mad because we don’t have per se a Dunbar High School– new Dunbar High School, we’ve got the high school. Like I said, it started back again but they wanted a new Dunbar High School and it always was some sense of pride with people in the community for a lot of reasons. Children, when it was all Black and nobody wants to go back to Black since something all Black because then you don’t get basic things that other schools have, but they have lost their bands, they have lost cheerleading, they lost their football, they lost a lot of things that they were very, very proud of when they go back and they said “We had the best band that that I guess we’ll ever have as a Black school.” And then they had a football team that started up





in 1931 and everybody used to talk about how good the football team was and how good some of those coaches of those teams were so they look at the school with a great sense of pride there.

	K:	Now the early education in Lee County for Blacks from the late 1800s to 1911, what can you tell me about the Civil War school Nelson and Ellen Tillis, J. Wesley Roberts, and the different churches that did education programs?

	R:	Well, Nelson Tillis was our first Black settler and he was married to Evelyn or Ellen Summerall Tillis and they had eleven children. He was always interested in getting someone to teach his children and so he went to Key West and found Wesley Roberts, brought him back, built the school on his ground and he had so many acres. Some say between sixty and maybe ninety acres of land in North Fort Myers which would be across the river as people said at that time. And he built a shack for his children. Wesley stayed with the family and of course he taught the children. This would be in the 1800s because Nelson came on Christmas day 1867. From that time on, when the schools, I guess, needed teachers, Wesley Roberts probably became one after they knew about him there, along with others. Sattur Ford and some other people named professor, Hankings, or some other names that go way, way back. I had a few on something but I can’t remember, but yeah Professor Davis, Professor Carson.

Wesley Roberts was about the very first one, Annie Molewall was probably the first lady. Sattur Ford was one, Arthur Douglas, W.M. Raines and it just goes right straight on. This was in the 1800s, I think the very last one was 1896 was Virginia Goldman and these were some of the teachers. Let’s see, you asked me





till 1900s, in 1911 of course, that would be– and of course the schools were in homes, class, a different school room was in churches. Mt. Olive would have been one. St. John Baptist, first Baptist Church would have been one from way back there in the 1800s because these schools were built something like in the 1800s. Friendship was built— his congregation came on from like 1912. But before 1912, you had the William’s Academy that we talked about before, so those were some of the schools and I can’t remember some of the other questions that you asked before but...

	K:	Do you know anything about the integrated neighborhoods of Edison Park and downtown Fort Myers?

	R:	Way, way back and that’s just the way people lived and I guess they didn’t consider to integrate it until a lot of people started coming in and they just didn’t want to live with them. Didn’t want Blacks to be living with Whites but when Nelson Tillis and those came across the river, they stayed over what you would call today in that McGregor area section of that was called Pine Tucket. Black folks used to live all up and down the Victoria Street where it is St. Francis School and buildings over in that area. Crawford, yeah Crawford is one of them. Trying to think of some other little streets that run in there and a part of Cleveland Avenue. The Valasco’s. That’s Dr. E.E. Valasco and his wife Lila was a school teacher, lived up there if I’m not mistaken, I’m not sure but I guess in the late [19]40s they lived up where I’m talking about now on McGregor into them because they had a lot of property up there and they sold the last property. Their house was located where there is a car lot on Victoria and Cleveland Avenue. On





the corner of Victoria and Cleveland is where Dr. E.E Valasco and his wife Lila lived before they came over here to what they called Safety Hill at that time.

	K:	Now the Fort Myers colored school at Safety Hill had a few different locations. Can you clarify those locations and exactly where it was? Why they moved—

	R:	Yeah. In 1911, somewhere in there, there was a colored school, Safety Hill colored school. That school, again like I say when Blacks were in churches, homes, and what, that was a school that was all White but they let Blacks have school in it after they had the built the new school for Whites. That school was somewhere located up– the school books will tell you, something like V-shaped arium Thompson Street and it ran somewhere where it used to be, I guess, a fish mart. They moved it. It seems closer to Anderson Avenue at that time and it was somewhere… I’m not sure what the exact location was, but it was very, very close to where the William’s academy would be when they built it. But that school was never a school built exactly for Blacks. That is not the William’s academy.

That has nothing to do with William’s. That was just a Safety Hill school or colored school for Blacks during 1911. Then it burned down. Then that is where the government came in and built the first federal school for Blacks which we call the William’s Academy, and the building must’ve started somewhere in 1912 and the children went into the school, which would be the William’s Academy, in 1913. When you hear the word William’s Primary, they called it William’s Primary after that school was transferred to sit on the grounds of Dunbar and when Primary children start going there like first, second, third grade, then they started. They didn’t call it the William’s Academy anymore, they called it the William’s





Primary and that was the original William’s Academy, what they started calling it. So it’s a lot of different things when you hear it. It goes in one ear and then people think this and that but there’s a lot about that William’s academy building, because we first start, what we have out there now was the original William’s Academy. We learned that it was just an addition to the original William’s Academy. But anyway, it was a school, so it serves its purpose now. We do have official part of the William’s Academy but it’s just an addition, it’s not the original part of it.

	K:	Who was the William’s Academy named for?



	R:	J.S. Williams. They say he was the first Black, they called him Superintendent. I guess he was the first Black director or supervisor of schools during that era ‘cause we never had an official Black superintendent like we have.

Superintendents are hard earned or one of those people but when it was an all integrated something you might call the person overall which was just one school you might call them the superintendent, so that would be J.S. Williams. He was a school person at that time, and he did a whole lot for the school.

	K:	What about the K of P Hall or KP Hall?



	R:	KP Hall. That’s called the Knights of Pythius Hall. That was another building and when things were overcrowded it was just another building that was right close to, I guess, the William’s Academy. K through maybe first grade or second went to that school. It just depend on how many children they had and if they could hold that many then the second, third, up until the eighth grade would go to the





original William’s Academy but it’s just another name that, a building, that Black children went to. But it was not built specifically for Blacks but it was a building that Blacks went to school in, way, way back.

	K:	And then Paul Laurence Dunbar School was built in 1927?



	R:	1927. Built 1926 in the spring of it but the children went to school in 1927, that’s the very first beginning of it, 1927.

	K:	Was there any higher secondary education for Black students in Lee County before Dunbar?

	R:	Children from Charlotte County, Collier County and all had to come when that school was built and I didn’t know that until a few years a back that Collier and Charlotte didn’t have a school in the [19]60s for Black. Not the secondary part but we’ll, I guess get to that. I’m talking about just plain ole high school. They didn’t have a Black high school and those counties had to come to Dunbar. I guess that’s another thing why people were so very, very proud of it because that was a school that a lot of children came from Collier County. We’re talking about Naples and Immokalee and all those. They would come to that school. Port Shower, Pointer Garder, all the kids, the Black school children would come to school up here. Arcadia children would come to school up here because they didn’t have one. That school held them. When they finished the William’s academy, eighth grade was the highest school grade for William’s academy. After they finished that, they had to go to Daytona. They had to go to Tallahassee. They had to go to St. Augustine. That would have been your high school students to finish





eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth grade. That’s where they had to go to finish and so yes that school I think held great pride for Black people here in the community. You know longer had to wish your kids were going to school. You now had a school first grade all the way up to twelfth to go. The very first twelfth grade though was in 1929 when they went there, I guess the girls were in tenth grade and they graduated in 1929 and it was two of them. Osceola Hodges and somebody by the name of Matthews. Osceola Hodges lived here for a long time why I can remember her name. The other girl Matthews moved away and didn’t live here I guess after she finished or got grown but those two girls were the first two graduating students and they graduated from Dunbar in 1929. That was our very first high school graduation.

	K:	Now the Dunbar community was centered on the activities of the high school such as the football?

	R:	Mm-hm. And they had a lot— another thing they were very, very proud of was the glee club, a singing club. Gee, I see the lady standing, the woman who wrote the alma mater to the school would take the— she was over the what did they call it, the glee club, or they called the choir, Dunbar Choir. She would take them and Mrs. Edison would come to hear them or she’ll take them to the Edison home for Mrs. Edison or Mr. Edison, or both of them to hear them. She would take them down to Broker Grand, all over, and they would be singing but they had a very beautiful singing group so a lot of things centered there at the school when we did get the school but before that they would take them and have graduation and things in the churches. And like I said, I know the two that





mentioned a lot in books are the Baptist church and the Methodist church which will be Mt. Olive AME Church today.

	K:	Now, the community members started calling Safety Hill, Dunbar? R:	Mm-Hm.

	K:	Was anything official done on that?



	R:	It just kind of like word of mouth and that’s when it just started. Had from one, I think it was a social group and I don’t remember what Jake Johnson told me that social group’s name was. It seems that they undertaker by the name of Sias was one of those businessmen. It was a group of business men who made up this group and they just started the community Dunbar after the school was very popular and it just kind of officially came to be called— section, just like any section. You had a section call, and there were many, many other sections with different na—got a section in the [19]20s called “The Bottom.” The Bottom would be Cranford Avenue where a lot of, as the young girls would say, momma didn’t let me go down there, but they had a lot of maybe nightclubs. I don’t know what they called the night club, but a lot of Black people call them where they played loud music and things like that and maybe bars or things like that. That was the bottom. B-O-T-T-O-M, not bottoms. Everybody get mad when you say bottoms. They say “We’re not called the bottoms, it is the Bottom” and so that was one section. You had another section during that time when we talked about Safety Hill but it changed to Dunbar. You got another section over here that was called Bookers Alley or they just gave section name I guess because of who was at the





time living there or what was happening in it but you had different sections of Blacks and nobody officially went downtown and say “It is of this day it is going to be called blah blah blah and is officially on the record book.” Just word of mouth stuff.

	K:	What were some of the sociological impacts that the changes that Dunbar went through had on Fort Myers?

	R:	Well some of them like I say cause school children, they can’t do some of the things that they did when they were all together and they had bands or they had glee clubs or they had cheerleading. A lot of that just kind of left people and children out and they were just kind of like, they’re not doing the things that they probably wanted to do but on the good part of it, when they went to the different schools or to participate in the different buildings or restaurants or any other, go downtown in shop in to the White stores then things became a little better than they’ve had so I guess the impact there would be good but the one side of it, they missed some of the things that they used to have to doing things together and they couldn’t do it. So, I guess one thing just outweighed the other and it’s something you just can’t do about it. If you have this then these things come with that and if you got this then these things come with it so I guess sociologically some is good and some is not so good. And it’s just like children today, you look at them and they up standing in the dark, six o’ clock, catching a bus, trying to go to another part section to get educated when, a lot of things. Children are being hit by cars, killed, and those are some negative parts of having to being us and going from your neighborhood to other neighborhoods trying to equalize things.





So those are some bad situations that nobody would love to have. If things were fair and equal then you might say “Well they can continue to go right in their own neighborhood and wouldn’t have to get up so early and be standing out there in the dark” or if momma want you to go back to football practice and she doesn’t have a car, she can’t take you over to cheerleading and nobody can get you there then you, as kids, you’re just left out of those things that you might– and on the other hand when there’s a whole lot of competition, some of the children can’t make it because there are great odds against them so we’ll have that too.

	K:	Okay. You were telling me about the social—



	R:	Sociological. Yeah that probably sums it up. I can’t think of any other things right now but yeah those were some of the things that I look at and I know we’re talking about children and things like that you know we didn’t have to be bussed a lot or taken from one place that’s gonna take you a long time to get there. But, on a whole I think things are much better. Could be even better but things are better than when you look back and when I came in 1965 than what they are today, 2001.

K:  Now the Fort Myers news press was– covered pretty much all of Lee County. Was there any articles on Dunbar and their social events? For instance, how often was Dunbar—?

	R:	In newspaper back there? You can’t hardly find something to date when you go back through there. Daisy, Benjamin, and I went looking for some Dunbar Easter material and other things that happened. They have a few little things in there but





not very much. Nobody kept record of what happened in the Black area unless it must’ve been very, very unusual. She gave me a— someone gave her some articles clip from the Micro fish down there about the bunch beach. That was a Black beach at that time and when it opened I think in 1949 and she went back to get some, they had some clipping on that but it had to be something very, very outstanding, I think about a thousand people attended the opening, this is Black people, attended the opening of that. And so I guess the newspaper did that.

Today you got more coverage but back there you didn’t have too much coverage or if it worked we could go and find a lot of things like people won’t be able to give us a picture of the William’s Academy because anyone who had it, their homes got burned or they’re dead and we don’t know anything about it. Now you go back and search the newspaper and you can’t find a picture of a William’s Academy. I really haven’t found a picture of the Dunbar High School in 1927 in there. It may be I just have not gone down to look for Dunbar High School for picture of it in the newspaper but like I say, the William’s Academy, they have nothing that goes way, way back. 1911-1912 or we would’ve found something and said here it is for our archaic person who was doing our work trying to do something to that building out there. But no, we didn’t get too much coverage.

Not way back. Mm-mm I guess it got brought in the [19]40s maybe. Picked up [19]40s-[19]50s, somewhere in that neighborhood. And you can go back like I said I have found some I-articles in the library that they got on the micro fish in the [19]40s about the Dunbar Easter Parade and some other things that we got. But then when they’re on Micro fish, getting them out. That’s terrible so I’ve gotta





go, go and see if the newspaper. I don’t know if they’ve got a place where, I guess you keep all the newspaper, but who would have very good newspaper like I just said? 1949 was a – there articles on there about brunch beach but I can’t go and get the original newspaper and read some of that because some of it that came off the [Inaudible 35:36] it’s hard to read and you can’t even make out what this says and I would love to have the newspaper but I don’t know where you can get it unless the news press has is. Again, I’ve got to do some research in there and I just haven’t gone down to ask them do you have old newspaper. I wouldn’t know where you would keep all those things.

	K:	Now there’s a lot of misconceptions and incorrect information historically. Is there any about Dunbar that you would like to clarify?

	R:	You’d have to give it to me. I was reading some little— I don’t have that book with me now, I was reading something and Mr. Munford knows just recently they said something about it was a mystery about Nelson Tillis that kept saying, maybe a mystery about where he came from, many people don’t know that but it seems like they didn’t know anything about Nelson Tillis and he’s got great, great grandchildren here. He has children that was born and raised here and it’s nothing that I can say that, let’s see I think someone wrote in one of his– I think that was Mr. Munford too said that Nelson Tillis was a carpenter. I don’t remember anybody saying any grandchildren, they ain’t say nothing. He was a fishing guy and he did hold button wood, that was some type of wood that they would build I guess soft wood. And then he was a farmer. But I don’t know anything about him being a carpenter. Someone said some of our doctors and





you know many times they would say this was the first doctor, if you don’t know who the very first doctor say this person was one of the very first. It seems that Valasco was one of the very first doctors that came. We had another one named Rivers and somebody wrote in there that he was the very first doctor to come here. Not so, Mr. Rivers was one of the first ones in that, I guess the 1920s- [19]30s area but he was not the very first. It seems that Valasco was. There are other things but I can’t unless you’ve got some and heard some that you can ask me point blank because I don’t.

	K:	What about Dr. Anderson and Anderson Avenue?



	R:	Oh yeah that’s a good one. I’m glad you– see that would’ve never come out.



Yeah they always say that Dr. Anderson was a Black person and we should not have put Dr. Martin Luther King name when we already had a Black person that boulevard named after but not so, he was White. And it goes way back there in the 1800s too when he first came here and was a –now I got a little piece on it but I don’t remember whether he was a medical doctor or a dentist. But he was in the profession field of being a doctor and he was White. He was not Black.

Someone also was a misconception that they say there was a Floweree, F-L-O- W-E-R-E-E and the historian from Venita Spring starting a historical program down there came and was asking me was he Black. Someone told him that he was a Black person. Well he had a house or church or something for Blacks to have their children to go to school, I can say houses and churches and all that they were all over and Mr. Floweree was a very, very rich person who would come during the winter and he had a house right up there by the Burrows house,





one of those nice big beautiful houses and he would come down and he was in citrus, I think fruit in Alva and the people that he needed to work he would have a building or such for these children. For some teacher or someone to come and teach the Black children if they worked for him and he was not Black at all. He was White.

	K:	Is there anything else you would like to add?



	R:	No I just wish that one day we could get some of the history written down on paper so that people could read about it and then some maybe some of the misconceptions that were having and before, I keep mentioning Jacob Johnson, I don’t know too many other people whose mind is as sharp as his and Pat Mikuchin and Lloyd Brown. If we could get those people to tell us some history and put it on paper before they ever leave us, I would be so very, very happy as a Black history person. So, hopefully one day that will happen and we’ll have something to pass on to the generations to come. But I think you all are doing great from Florida Gulf Coast University and trying to get some of it so cause when you help write it down and you help pass it on I am going to be so happy that it’s up here on the shelf for people to come and look at it and make copies of it. So, I’m happy about that.

	K:	Well thank you again and— R:	And thank you.

	K:	You’re welcome. This concludes my interview.





	R:	Good. Good. Good. And I hope you get that degree honey and I hope you make an A on that paper.

	K:	I hope so too.

















Transcribed by:

Ashley Brickhouse

February 27, 2019

Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

March 18, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

November 19, 2020