AAHP 606; Mayo; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 606 George Mayo 6-6-2018 Interviewed by Julian Valdivia on June 6, 2018

74 minutes | 50 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Fort Meyers elder George Mayo recounts his life for interviewer Julian Valdivia. Mayo was born in Panama City Florida, but permanently moved to Fort Meyers in 1947. In Fort Meyers, his father worked at a sawmill, his mother worked in a boarding house, and he began attending the Dunbar School. At Dunbar, Mayo and other students learned from disused textbooks discarded by the local White school. Mayo, who graduated high school during the heat of the Korean War, decided to escape the monotony of a life in agricultural labor by enlisting. He spent three years on duty, where he was sent to various parts of the Deep South, including Alabama and South Carolina. On leave, he married his wife of sixty-four years when he was just nineteen. After returning from leave, he was sent to Korea where he remained for eighteen months in Busan serving as a driver for the military police. After returning from the service, Mayo attended Florida A&M University, graduating shortly thereafter.

While in Tallahassee, he remembers participating in the bus boycott, a successful effort to integrate public transportation in the city. He then began teaching at the Dunbar School, working there for several years before being transferred to North Fort Meyers High School in 1969 as a part of integration efforts. He continued to work there for thirty- one years as a history teacher.



Keywords: [Fort Meyers, labor, Dunbar, education, segregation, Lee County, Panama City, Bay County, Florida A&M, FAMU, educator, teacher]



AAHP 606

Interviewee: George Mayo Interviewer: Julian Valdivia Date: June 6, 2018



	V:	This is Julian Valdivia with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, I’m at the Lee County Black History Society in Roberto Clemente Park and I’m sitting here today with—

	M:	George Mayo.



	V:	All right and if I could first ask you, just for the ease of the transcribers, how is your name spelled?

	M:	G-E-O-R-G-E.



	V:	Okay.



	M:	M-A-Y-O.



	V:	All right, perfect and what year were you born? M:	May 13, 1934.

	V:	Okay and were you born in Fort Myers? M:	No I was born in Panama City, Florida.

	V:	Oh okay and when did you come to Fort Myers? M:	To stay- first time I came out here it was 1941. V:	Okay.

	M:	There was a place called Slater, Florida which was across the river [inaudible at 00:00:58]. The next time I came was in 1947 and I’ve been here ever since.

	V:	Okay, why don’t you tell about that first time, in 1941 you said? M:	[19]41 mmhm.

	V:	Why did you come- or you said you wanted to—





	M:	My father was working out there, sawmill, one of the largest sawmills in the state of Florida at that time.

	V:	Okay.



	M:	[inaudible at 01:19] and my father worked there and his wife, he had another wife, my step mother, she ran a boating house for the workers and when I came down I think I was seven years old and rode the bus. They rode a bus from Slaters to over here and when I left that morning to come over here, alone, and have one come to help me raise anything, I think I was just seven years old at the time and when I first arrived at Dunbar High School out there

	V:	Okay.



	M:	and I’m saying this with all the sincerity, I thought they stopped at the wrong place cause I’d never seen a school for Black kids built like Dunbar High School.

	V:	Oh wow.



	M:	Never, because in North Florida they were wooden schools, well they were- they weren’t good schools cause the first- the school I was using- well my first grade was in an old church, no lights of any kind inside of it and they slap- one of the things like you see in slavery time movies or something like that.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	Yeah, that’s what it was and my father sent for me because he hadn’t seen me in a long time, he and my mother split up so I came and I finished first grade down here. Williams Primary which was right behind Dunbar.

	V:	Okay.



	M:	And I was amazed they had indoor toilets, it was like a miracle.





V:   So like the ones in-



M:  The one in North Florida had outdoor toilets. I used to call it the ten-seater. V:  The ten-seater.

M:   A regular, what’s it called, privet, outdoor toilet, yeah.



V:  And were there anything or was there anything else that you remember like vividly being different about the schools up here besides like how they were built?

M:   Here in Lee County?



V:   Yeah here in Lee County, in Dunbar.



	M:	They had [inaudible at 00:03:16] indoor toilets, the teachers were, well I won’t compare the teachers because the teachers did what they had to do back then and as far as I’m concerned all my teachers really were good. Now you could get punished [inaudible at 00:03:37] that didn’t happen to men teachers there back in elementary school and lady teachers there kind of touch you up quite a bit but other than that down here it wasn’t too bad at all.

	V:	Okay and so, just so like because I’m trying to like frame everything together in my mind, when you came to Slater and then visited Fort Myers and went to school here it was because you were visiting your father then?

	M:	Yeah, that time.



	V:	Okay and then you went back up to your mother afterwards?



M:   Well after school was out okay the bus would come, it must have been a bus built in 1918 or something. It was a plywood bus, a model 8, never forget it was model 8, T model we used to call the bus, jacked up in the back just like [inaudible at





00:04:26] stage courts or something. Anyway they would come sometime around 5:30 in the morning, if they felt like it cause some of the days they weren’t coming

	V:	Oh okay.



	M:	See what I’m saying, so we’re staying out there and we would ride over here, which I think it was nine miles to get over here from there and it was like forever but it went old buses and we put aside in front of the school at Dunbar and I’d walk over to Williams Primary which is, that’s part of it right there, that building out there that’s Williams Primary and I was just amazed that it had [inaudible at 05:02] toilets.

	V:	That’s cool. Okay so then- after that then then you went back up to Panama City with your father-

	M:	After school was out. V:	Okay.

	M:	After school was out, my second- in Panama City now I lived in a place called Millville which was part of Bay County.

	V:	Okay.



	M:	Okay and they had a one room school, it was first second and third grade in that school. Well they wouldn’t let me come and go to Rosenwald which was in Glenwood, they called it Shine town. They wouldn’t let me go there because it was about three or four miles a walk over there but my sister had to go there but I went to school- I can’t even think of the name of the school but I know my teachers’ name, one was Ms. Forest and one was Ms. Clayton and first through





third grade all in the same little one room school. They had desks, little tiny desks and had a little stove in the corner and when they-she was teaching the first graders, you were quiet, there was no problem. Like you do now to kids and [inaudible at 06:08] you didn’t do that then you had sense enough cause they would hurt you.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	[inaudible at 06:12] the women didn’t take no foolishness and then when the time come, which I was in second grade, when our time would come then everybody else would be quiet until you- until she went through everything. That was- and I finished it- I finished second and third grade in that one room school.

	V:	Okay.



	M:	But you don’t want to know about the books and stuff so don’t worry about that. V:	I’m assuming with that-

	M:	I’ll you that later, whenever you ask me. V:	Yeah.

	M:	I don’t want to get ahead of the game.



	V:	With the books that you were talking about, I’m assuming the books had like [inaudible at 06:48] something like that.

	M:	They were hand me down basically- V:	From the white pages-

	M:	Some of the pages were missing and I never will forget all the time, Peter and Peggy that was the name of the little middle school was Peter and Peggy and





they had the one I don’t like to think about but one card they about little Black sambo.

	V:	I know about that.



	M:	You’ve heard of that? V:	I have.

	M:	Running around around around the tree turning little tigers turning into butter and this kind of foolishness watch as a mosquito try to get on you.

	V:	Oh is it?



M:  Biting [inaudible at 07:18] you’ll go away, you’ll probably come back right now. V:   When I say I’m going to slap him.

M:  Yeah and usually we got a lot of hand me down stuff. A lot of teachers had to buy their own stuff, just like they do now. Teachers- a lot of teachers have to buy their own things now but it was more so in the Black schools so yeah.

	V:	So what kind of like things did like did they just not get like money from the county and stuff like that or as much money?

	M:	Now I don’t know how they went about paying them but I know that Black teachers and White teachers didn’t get the same thing. One teacher, one Black teacher disputed me down that they always did get the same but they did not.

	V:	Okay.



M:  I looked it up in the news where it’s 1949 somewhere around there they started getting the same check. One check might be a different color from another and all that kind of stuff like that. Well I guess depends maybe on the county.

V:   Yeah.





	M:	But that’s where it was as far as the teachers were concerned but they all were good teachers, know what I’m saying?

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	With the stuff they had and a lot of them had to really buy their own stuff. You know this is down in elementary schools as I far as I know in elementary schools.

	V:	Okay, so then I want to move on then and talk about the second time that you came to Fort Myers then in 1947.

	M:	I came back well I came back really before then, I came out in the fourth grade. V:	Okay.

	M:	I was in fourth grade and I was over in the big school, over in Dunbar, the big school.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	Okay and it wasn’t too bad like say you had the old stuff, the old books, that time you had to share the books. The teachers did a lot of work on their own I guess with the little money they were making. They would bring things in and have you to work on your stuff but the teachers were good. I could never complain about the teachers because I became a teacher myself so I can never complain about the teachers down there and we were- and matter of fact you learn because most of them had somethings either a strap or sitting on their desk and you knew. For instance, they said George Mayo, go to the board, I’d go to the board, so all right we’re going to do some addition, five columns, and the teachers, the way they taught then you didn’t say one plus two is three. You didn’t do that. You





went 3-6-9 just like that and when you missed one you get a look back. But you know it was learning situation.

	V:	Yeah it was just a different time.



	M:	Yeah it was a different time, parents expect for you to teach the kids. V:	Yeah.

	M:	Yeah and you wouldn’t go home, at least I didn’t, go home and said I got a whipping today or something like that. I got a [inaudible at 00:10:37] never tell my parents because my dad might give me some more, what did you do? See what I’m saying cause he had never been to school a day in his life. So- but we knew a lot of the stuff we were getting would come from other schools cause the books was- sometimes just be shoddy.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	Matter of fact they didn’t let you take the books home, [inaudible at 11:03] in the classroom at least when I was going back then. Then when I came back in seventh grade, we came back I was in seventh grade and I lived- lived here when I was in fifth. When I was in fifth I didn’t want to go to that certain teacher which I don’t call out the name because I was afraid of her. I didn’t break fingers because that lady did not play and so I went back to Panama City and I went to-it was Rosenwald School. This was a long building, you know Rosenwald this guy, a philanthropist

	V:	Yup.



	M:	would give things out to you know schools and stuff like that. It was a long building with big pot belly stoves in the corner [inaudible at 00:11:58] up in the-





up in the top and still that outdoor toilet out there I was telling you about, the ten seater.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	Even the teachers had their own private toilet, they had a lock on the door, who’d want to go in there? But anyway, winter time in Panama City my dad would come back. In winter time- in winter time the boys had to go out and scrap up woods that we would put in the pot belly stove cause we kind of improvised anything for heat, stuff like that so it was the boy’s job. The floor had [inaudible at 12:26] poured all over to keep the dust down I guess but a lot of us would go back for it cause it would just be a mess, yeah. But then [inaudible at 12:33] I think we had about three seventh grade homerooms.

	V:	Okay.



	M:	And by the time we finished the three we had nineteen students. So everybody like, what happened, I said that’s a long story we’re going to go over that, whatever question you want to ask. Seventh grade I started down here.

	V:	Okay, and do you know- cause I don’t know my dates on this but I know Jay Colin English-

	M:	Jay Colin English



	V:	Who’s down here in Fort Myers around like the 1940s, I think like [19]40s?



Around the time that you might know. Didn’t he apply for there to get money from the Rosenwald Fund for Dunbar?

	M:	Dunbar?



	V:	Yeah.





	M:	Could have, he could have but one thing that we noticed that every summer, you see new desks were hauled out here but the new desks were all carved out cause it coming from Fort Myers High School and some of those schools. So we would get the old stuff they would throw away. The books with half the pages sometimes torn out of them and things like that. Actually that was just about every summer. Every summer now, if they were getting money, okay, they had the heat in the Dunbar school, the big like community school now. You had radiate from the radiators, you’d hear the janitors beating on the radiators all day trying to get the heat to you know to circulate around. All right, you had one custodian so basically a lot of the time the kids you clean up your own classroom and stuff like that.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	But we knew that every summer we’re gon’ get some new books but now where they were coming from. They were written in and all that other kind of good stuff.

	V:	Yeah I always wondered what or if anyone ever kept any of those books cause I always hear that when talking about the school, about the hand me down books and things like that like that was written in them but I really wish that like I could look at one to see like just how how bad it was. Because I mean I can only imagine myself is the thing but that’s just me going off on a tangent. I need to get to the questions. Okay, so then with that, when did you- did you graduate from-

	M:	Dunbar.



	V:	At Dunbar High School? M:	Class of [19]53.





	V:	Okay and then did you just settle down here in Fort Myers? M:	No, no, the Korean War was going on when I graduated.

	V:	Okay.



	M:	They were trying to get the troops- trying to get a troop signed and I had when I graduated well every day I would leave the house, sit on the street, sit out there on here in front of the pool and stuff like that because I’d made a vow to my father when I graduated in June and I told him: you don’t have to wake me up next Saturday at four o’ clock in the morning to go catch one of those farm trucks to go pick cucumbers. I was not gonna pick cucumbers for nobody ever in my life again. But I did that from seventh grade through high school, I did that, you know what I’m saying? So I sat there for about three weeks, I asked the lady, the registrar for the draft, I actually went downtown, a lady name Christine Robins, never will forget her as long as I live and I told her I want to be called up in the next draft. You know like the kid said, the guy said: man you know the war is going on. I said I got to get away from here I care less about that. Ima die here if I keep picking them cucumbers and stuff like that so anyway the day that I left to go for training and stuff they brought in a guy named Joe Jones who got killed in Korea. I cried all the way to- I cried all the way to Sarasota, Florida and remember that cause then I realized what I- what I you know gotten myself into.

Joe Jones, I just saw his name in the paper too recently, one of the Korean [inaudible at 00:16:49] killed during the Korean War. Joe Jones, I knew it well. It kind of shook me up a little bit plus I had another ex-classmate come back and half his toes were gone from frostbite.





V:   Oh wow.



M:  Yeah so but anyway that’s another old story about that but anyway I went to serve and I stayed three years, three months and nine days forget about the miles and here I am.

V:   And they sent you to Korea?



	M:	Oh I signed up to go to- well when I went to the serv- when I got there and finished with training and getting ready to finish with training the guy come and ask anybody that want to reup but then they told me that I was going to Georgia. I was in Fort Rucker, Alabama, the hell hole of the south they call it, mean, and it said we were going to Fort Benning to spend the rest of our time but I didn’t want to [inaudible at 00:17:47] and just stay in the United States so the guy come in order to get people to sign up, reenlist and stuff, I said I hadn’t been there three months good so I went on in, I talked to the guy, he told me about Germany and all that kind of stuff I said oh yeah you know I want to go to Germany you know. I want to see the world right?

V:   Yeah



	M:	So I signed the thing and said oh- make a long story short, I got a little leave, I come home and I got married- I came home, I got married. I’ve been married 64 years.

	V:	Oh wow.



	M:	I married her when I was nineteen my wife was seventeen but anyway I came home and then I get this letter but I come back to report to Fort Jackson, South Carolina, I went to South Carolina and when I got there I had to go in the rifle





range and this stuff to requalify shooting different kinds of weapons and stuff like that. So I’m saying like where [inaudible at 00:18:39] going into Europe right?

Then when I got my order they said FA and I said FA? FA what is that? American Forces Far East, that’s Korea yeah so I end up in Korea for eighteen months but I was so far back you couldn’t a bomb drop. I was in Pusan.

	V:	Oh okay.



	M:	All that time I was in Pusan. I stayed there eighteen months in Pusan. V:	Did you ever see the front line?

	M:	No sir.



	V:	Okay.



	M:	Closest I got to the front line was Incheon, yeah.



	V:	I want to ask then, you said you spent some time in Fort Rucker, Alabama. M:	Oh lord, yeah. I was a camp worker then.

	V:	Okay.



	M:	Okay, camp worker. Let me tell you a story about camp, do I have a little time? V:	Yeah you all the time you need.

	M:	My mother and my sister were born in Dothan, Alabama V:	Okay.

	M:	Camp Rucker was out front Dothan, out from Dothan was Houston County, I don’t know what county Camp Rucker was in but anyway when I was a little boy, eight years old, the Caucasian police and the Caucasian military police come down in the bottom and bother with the Black soldiers but the Black military police could not go uptown and mess with the Caucasian soldiers. So anyway,





one day, this soldier ran between- he was running from the cops and the military police and he ran between our house and this guy leveled down pow shoot-hit him in the hand in a 4-5 kind of pop but he hit him in the hand and the soldier- Black soldier, settle down and they started kicking him and all that stuff and we standing there you know looking out the back doors and then [inaudible at 00:20:22] and saw that. I told my mother right there and God bless her, I said mom I said if I ever get to get grown, be a big boy, I don’t want to go into Camp Rucker. Where’d they send me?

	V:	They sent you to Camp Rucker. M:	Yeah and [inaudible at 00:20:42] V:	And did you just do basic there or? M:	I did basic there.

	V:	Okay wow man.



	M:	Yeah so they were just integrated. V:	Yeah.

	M:	They integrated 1947, it was 1947 Truman signed that law V:	Yeah.

	M:	integrating all the services okay this is what six years later and like anything else you come cause with integrating it takes a long time and it takes a while. They hadn’t been told completely Camp Rucker yet that integration was there. But anyway we used to go to- the company I was in was supposed to be like an experiment. Everybody was a high school graduate, no none of them tobacco





chewing people stuff like that. It was all- it was supposed to be intelligent guys, some of them for every night.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	One guy- guys fresh from Mississippi stuff like that but other than that I stayed the sixteen weeks. Sixteen weeks and then I come out, it was an experience really.

	V:	Made it through the Hell Hole of the South, that’s something.



	M:	Oh yeah, yeah I had an argument with a boy one night about Dixie. V:	Oh okay.

	M:	You ever heard of Dixie?



	V:	Yeah is he talking about the song? M:	Yep.

	V:	Okay.



	M:	Okay when the radio station would go off at night that’s what the southern radio stations would play, Dixie. So I was shining my shoes, you had to shine your shoes every night and stuff like that, top and bottom, you had to shine top and bottom. And I was sitting there shining my shoes, this boy name Crow from Mississippi come and step right up over me just like that and he said boy. I said who in the hell. He said don’t you hear that song Dixie on the radio? I said yeah I hear it, what about it? He said you was supposed to be standing up. On the foot of my bunk I had my backpack and a bayonet on there and I reached back there and got that bayonet and I put it right to his leg and then you got one second to back up. Okay, go ahead man ask another question.





	V:	Oh I’m good. I thought the funny thing too was that even though- because you said you’re all a high school graduate, he’s calling you boy.

	M:	Yeah he was calling me boy, yeah. Yeah I- you know and it got to me because when I used to work on the farm, the guy treat you like you were a prisoner some time out there you know and they talk to you and you working cause you probably didn’t know his name they always said whatever I forgot what they call them. Foremen they had when you were picking them cucumbers in a [inaudible at 00:23:16] place like that and some of those rows, cucumber rows were like never ending you know and then I’d hear, come on back here boy and get these cucumbers you not done with all these cucumbers back here. I wanted to say something so bad but I said I need these folk, cause when I first started I working for four dollars and eighty cent a day.

	V:	A day.



	M:	A whole day. Then it went up to a dollar an hour and that was in 195-something when it went up a dollar an hour.

	V:	And by then you weren’t even working there anymore. M:	Yes I was, I worked until my last- until I graduated.

	V:	Oh, yeah and so you graduated.



	M:	Yeah then went up to my dad, I said, hey the kid’s not going back there. I said, I’m not gonna work on no farm but basically that’s what they- every Black person did back then.

	V:	Yeah.





	M:	Agriculture, house maid something like that because my mothers- my step- mother [inaudible at 00:24:08] was a good woman, she don’t take no crap. [Inaudible at 00:24:13] She was a cook and she would cook at hospitals and if they said something wrong she just didn’t say anything back to them. She just pick up her high shoes and walk out the door and they called her back the next day.

	V:	You said she cooked at the hospital once so she cooked at- M:	One of the cooks, John Walker

	V:	John Walker.



	M:	Mhm.



	V:	Where they got the apartments now?



	M:	Butcher pan. It’s called butcher pan because they would cook Black eyed peas and lima beans for people to eat. I said you gon’ kill them people out there the stench is going you know that gas but anyway she worked out there and then when they closed John Walker and turned to Lee Memorial she didn’t last a day out there cause they were she said started screaming hollering at her, and she didn’t play that.

	V:	Really?



	M:	No.



	V:	So integration didn’t go well at the hospitals? M:	Not at first, no, no.

	V:	I always wondered why- why did Lee Memorial close down John Walker? Was it just cause it was the Black hospital and-





	M:	I guess cause of integration, maybe. V:	Yeah.

	M:	You know they call that word- they misuse that word, integration, but I think so consensus, I got in an old accident on what used to be Anderson Avenue and got hit on. A guy was giving me a ride home and another guy come out of a corner, bam, they hit [inaudible at 00:25:28]. I grabbed the dashboard which is something you never do. I put my hand on the dashboard and I went straight up like that and I- went across my eye and anyway I went to the John Walker about I guess about 12:30 something like that, I went to John Walker. Another guy come in [inaudible at 00:25:50] a Black guy come in. Somebody hit him in the shoulder with a hatchet or something like that and he had been in a war and stuff and so we sit there. You know what time the doctors coming? Cause see the doctors had to come from Lee Memorial, yeah. The doctors came about at 6:30 in the morning. That’s when the doctors got there, I had to have five stitches in my eye. I don’t know what they did with this guy with the hatchet thing. They come in the scrubs, how sanitary is that?

	V:	No.



	M:	The nurses had their scrubs on and all that stuff but I think they thought we were so ignorant we didn’t know the difference. Really and the guy he put the five stitches in my eye. Stitched my eyes up, that how sometimes it was you had to wait the doctors had to come from over there and maybe it was a good thing that they started letting us go over there. But the first John Walker was out on High Street.





	V:	Yeah.



	M:	It was a wooden building. V:	Yeah.

	M:	Okay, that was a butcher pan, you thought that one was. My brother-in-law got in a fight and they messed up each other and I’m sitting out on the porch and I could look in the operating room and he was screaming, hollering, they were dabbing something in him, stuff like that but it wasn’t no doctors, don’t know what they were.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	Yeah they weren’t doctors but they as soon as they patched him up they put him in jail.

	V:	Oh really?



	M:	Yeah. Yeah he and a guy had gotten in a fight that’s all.



	V:	So with John Walker then did they didn’t have any Black doctors on hand or anything like that to treat people?

	M:	No, not that I knew of, not that I can remember. V:	Wow.

	M:	We had a Black doctor here but I don’t know what his thing but he didn’t last long. Dr. Stevens, now that was way a long time ago but Dr. Stevens in the [19]50s was here, came here, matter of fact he had an office right across from the church that I attend [inaudible at 00:27:46] right across the street. I was playing football at the time and I got my knee hurt and my sister-in-law demanded from the coach that I go to- that she-they need to send me to the





doctor. They sent me to Dr. Stevens, never will forget that and that’s the only treatment I had. Gave me one shot in my knee and then [inaudible at 00:28:08] another one and saying that, I named this knee Dunbar High School.

	V:	Oh really?



	M:	Yeah, he was a good doctor but he ended up in Tallahassee working the FAMU hospital.

	V:	Oh okay.



	M:	And the law we had when I was going to school was Florida A&M, that’s where I graduated from.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	And my son, I had my son, my son’s a little boy, he had- he got pneumonia and I rushed him up to the hospital but I lived downhill off campus. I lived downhill and I rush him up. The guy was taking me up there and he was just driving too slow, so I jump out the car and start running with my son in my arms. By the time Dr.

Stevens was coming out the hospital I said Doctor, Doctor. I said my son is sick, my son is sick and he goes like well I’m going to lunch. I said no you’re not. You gon’ come here- remember when I got sick- no doc- it’s cause we- I knew him you know and turns out the kid had pneumonia. Yeah I said well he treated me with a knee and then he treated my child. He had pneumonia.

	V:	Your son turn out alright?



	M:	Oh yeah, he out being a Lt. Colonel in the service. V:	Oh wow.

	M:	Graduated Florida State.





	V:	Wow that’s great.



	M:	My other daughter- I got another daughter, young daughter, she graduated from Clark. Atlanta, Clark. Clark, Atlanta. She started FAM but you know when she got grown [inaudible at 00:29:30]

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	But anyway I had- when I was in the service and I was like just a driver. For three years, that’s all I did in the service was drive the military police in this road and so I’m driving a duty officer, it was a young guy. One night over in Korea and I was driving the guy, the duty officer but he was second lieutenant and he asked- he said man did you finish high school? I said, yes sir. You see you sound like you- you’re kinda intelligent. [Inaudible at 00:30:09] one thing lead to another, he said come, why don’t you come down to my office and talk with me? He was an education officer too, so I went in there and I talked to him. He said, no you have no business in this manual service. [Inaudible at 00:30:21] He said you have no business in this service. He said, but I can fix that for you, you got any school you’d like to go to or anything like that? I said, yes sir. I said Florida A&M College then and I said yeah Tallahassee I said I’d like to go there. He said, well I’ll tell you what I’m going to get some paperwork a let’s how you like it and stuff like that. But anyway when I got my discharge in 1956, everything in Florida A&M was done for me [inaudible at 00:30:50] But anyway that was- that’s how I got my start.

	V:	So when you came back then and then went to Florida A&M, I’m assuming did you like do education and stuff like that cause you said you were a teacher.





	M:	I taught at the Dunbar school out on Edison, the new one they built. V:	Yeah.

	M:	I’m at that one now. The first one they built out on Edison and then integration, I use that word loosely, integration in 1969 well you know in 1954. So this one of those counties that were kinda slow, dragging their feet but in 1969 they decided to integrate. Now when I worked at the Dunbar, I worked out there four years and it was…well I’m not gon’ say bad. Teachers were good, teachers were great but we had I think three projectors maybe four projectors. I’m teaching history, I didn’t have shades and we had windows. We had all these windows here and sometimes I would try to show a film, sometimes I wouldn’t. And we had [Inaudible at 00:32:10] you know books just like all the time. We didn’t get a whole lot of things that we had to get but we did good, we did great. Then in 1969 when we got ready to close it up, I went to North Fort Myers High School. I stayed over there thirty-one years. When I first I got there it was a mess. I had a class of thirty-two kids and they had fifteen books. I said, “I thought I just left this kind of stuff.”

	V:	No.



	M:	You know I thought over out there at Dunbar we’d be short a lot of stuff and I told them I had maps and all that kind of stuff. But one thing about being a Black teacher sometimes you gotta know how to grow. I can’t grow a [inaudible at 00:32:56] but I can give you an idea of where I’m talking about by writing on the book. I love to talk, I didn’t- I just didn’t believe- I never believe in kids doing all this sitting paperwork. To me that was sometimes just totally ridiculous.





	V:	Yeah.



	M:	So what- basically what I’d do because sometimes we’d be short on material, I outlined stuff on the board and made my own outline on the board cause I didn’t have [inaudible at 00:33:21] and all that stuff like that I didn’t. So I put things on the board and talked from it you know that kind of stuff like that.

	V:	Since you were a history teacher, I want to ask then, did you any of the books that you had from the school mention any parts of like Black history and things like that? I mean like important people like Frederick Douglas, George Washington Carver, W. E. B. Du Bois?

	M:	Oh, the books really didn’t, even in the other school there weren’t. It’s what you do, I didn’t care whether they put it in the book or not because I still was gonna teach it but they had a thing- they had a course they called Problems in American Democracy.

	V:	Oh okay.



	M:	You ever heard of that? V:	No I haven’t

	M:	That was the name of the course, it was a required course to teach the- to keep y’all- to keep the kids from becoming communists. But anyway I taught a Problems in American Democracy class and so they gave me an opportunity to teach stuff. Cause when I was going to college some amendments to the constitution- they didn’t- my instructor in Political Science didn’t even mention it because we we’re not getting what the constitution says and all the things like that but I was up there when we had a boycott. When I first got there we had a





boycott cause they didn’t have Black bus drivers in the transit thing and I believe- you ever been to Tallahassee?

	V:	I’ve never been to Tallahassee.



	M:	But I lived in a place called- called Griffin- Griffin Heights because I had a family so I had to get an apartment. It was way off cross town, cross French Town, way off, corner of Broward and Griffin, and there was Broward and Griffin, and I would get there. Broward ran right through Florida State campus so they had a bus boycott whatcha think I had to do?

	V:	In the bus boycott? M:	Yeah.

	V:	No use the buses? M:	Yeah, you better not. V:	Yeah.

	M:	Yeah so I- at first you know I walked but then my wife took me and came to school in that car. Other than that, yeah I don’t think, some of the guys- some people scared- you know forget to pick you up because cops stop and harass you and all that kind of stuff like that.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	But it worked out. Then I was there when this young- one of the students raped by these six White boys.

	V:	Really?



	M:	Uh-huh.



	V:	This-what year?





	M:	196- it was during the [19]60s. I started school in 1957 so that’d be around 1956, 1957, [19]58, between [19]58 and [19]59 somewhere around in there in between. You’d probably find it if you look in an old newspaper. I believe, but this was the first time in the history they had found- caught Caucasians who actually had raped a Black girl.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	Okay so they took her to a place called Jackson Road and these six boys raped her. Thank the Lord they didn’t kill her because they could have killed her. So they were bringing her back, bringing her back and they got- I can’t think of the name of the street but they got near the campus: Florida A&M. They were near the school [inaudible at 00:36:46] and all of that stuff was and the cops just happen to stop the car. They had her down on the floor, I’m assuming that they were planning on putting- I hope to God that was what their plan was because they rode all the way back to the campus trying to bring her back to the campus and she was on the floor and they arrested these guys. This was worldwide. For the first time in the history of the south, Caucasians were actually caught with a person that they had raped because a lot of places in the south said that there was no law saying anything about raping a Black woman, there’s no such thing. That Mississippi sure said, they said that for sure. There’s no such thing as a White man raping a Black girl- but anyway when the cops got- put em in jail and most of them [inaudible at 00:37:40] whatever and- so they had the trial. This was a worldwide trial for people from the Soviet Union, German, all these places.





Reporters came over to see because you know why? Because rape was a capital offense in the south, especially in Florida.

	V:	Oh really?



	M:	You raped a person, you died. V:	Oh yeah.

	M:	Rhetoric basically for us V:	And on the spot too.

	M:	Yeah, yeah.



	V:	Not like after a jury. M:	Yeah, yeah.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	But if they caught you in the act like that you know you couldn’t have said it’s a lie cause that’s what they were saying: she’s lying, she’s lying. But they couldn’t have said it because they were caught with the evidence. But anyway we went to the trial, Black sat up in the back at that time, we had to sit up in the back. There wasn’t much room up there no [inaudible at 00:38:30] no nothing. So you had to have a good bladder man cause I’m telling you [inaudible at 00:38:37]. So we sat up there and they start hearing the trial and they were trying to say the girl said it was okay. Let me tell you something, if I take you out in the woods and there’s six or seven of us, what you gon’’ do? Fight? What you gon’’ be stupid enough to try and fight? But again he had her underwear stuff like that so we were saying- you know the Black people were saying rooooooo like they were getting kind of upset by that stuff and the judge said we’re going to put you out of here if I hear





that noise over there one more time, going put all of you out. They found them guilty I think they gave them 10 months or something like that and I don’t think they spent 10 days in pokey. But this is when they changed the law, especially in the state of Florida, rape would be death if you killed the person that you committed the act but just raping person, no you do some time.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	So you got- these boys should’ve been executed. Now the girl [inaudible at 00:39:42] Have you heard about the [inaudible at 00:39:49]

	V:	I have I’ve heard about both of these. Both of them- I did a Florida history class my freshman year and we talked about both of them.

M:  I keep thinking the name- we stopped one day and went into McDonald’s I said Lord why would. I said I never thought I’d be in a- sitting in a McDonald’s why would. You can ask me some more questions.

	V:	Oh that’s great though.



	M:	Yeah and so this is something cause-cause-how fast can you read? V:	Uh kind of sort of? History of Juneteenth.

	M:	They gon’ celebrate it here but I want people to know what they’re celebrating.



	V:	Huh Juneteenth is the oldest known celebration commemorating the end of slavery in the United States dating back to 1865. It was on June 19th that the Union soldiers led by Mayor General Gordon Granger. Am I saying that right, Granger?

	M:	Mhm.





	V:	Landed at Galveston, Texas with news that- with news that they had- oh that they had ended- oh that they had ended plus that the enslaved were now free. Note this was two-

	M:	Two years.



	V:	Oh two and a half years. Yeah its- M:	After they had been freed.

	V:	Yeah after the Emancipation Pro- or President Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation which had become official- a mosquitos biting me- official January 1st, 1863. The emancipation had-had little impact on Texas due to the small number of union troops to enforce the new executive order. However, with the surrender of General Lee in April of 1865 plus the arrival of General Granger’s regimes Forts is finally strong enough to influence- influence plus overcome the resistance. Attempts to reason for lateness. One: messenger murdered on its way to Texas with news of freedom. Two: news deliberately withheld by the enslaved for free labor. Three: troops allowed to- oh allowed one last great hoorah. Is that what it says?

	M:	Mhm.



	V:	General Order number three: Delivered by General Granger the people of Texas are informed that in accordance with the proclamation from the executive of the US, all slaves are free. This involves an absolute equality of rights plus rights of property between former masters and slaves and the connection therefore, existing between them becomes- that between employer and free laborer. June 19th was coined Juneteenth and grew- grew with more participation- each other





for praying for gathering remaining family members, Juneteenth continues to be highly revered in Texas decades later in Galveston on this date.

	M:	Yeah that was written in a paper. V:	Yeah. Did you write this?

	M:	Yeah.



	V:	Was that part of one of your lessons? M:	I researched it, yeah.

	V:	Oh okay.



	M:	Cause see, everybody- I think they‘re getting ready to have a Juneteenth thing here.

	V:	Yeah yeah no they are.



	M:	A lot of people don’t know basically it started in Texas. You know it was something about Pensacola I’ve been trying to find out. A slave- how long it took a slave to be- a slave in or around Pensacola- how long it took them to find out they were free. Okay so, but this Juneteenth I keep hearing all kind of Juneteenth so I said let me go and look this stuff up and cause I was stationed one time out of San Francisco, California and most of the people from Texas. Black people from Texas migrated out to California, that’s where most of them went. So I know they had a Texas Players Club and I was one of the best patrons they ever had, in and out of the joint. Yeah but- I should’ve let you see all this stuff before but these are the things that I have written up and I had here. This is about the Dunbar High School.

	V:	Oh okay.





M:  the building of the Dunbar High School, I’m gonna give you ten minutes to read this.

V:   Alright I can pause this then.



M:  You don’t bother me just ask me the question. I have no problem with that. V:   Alright so okay so you’re talking about the chemistry facilities then?

M:  Uh-huh we had- I know one time we had in the chemistry lab and our chemistry would eventually become the first principal at the new Dunbar High School next year by promise.

V:   Yep okay.



	M:	Okay so we had- had a little exercise one day- that wasn’t a mosquito that sucker was green. We had a little exercise one day and he was trying to mix the stuff in a lid, the lid off of a jar. He was trying to mix the stuff on a lid on a jar and messed around there and someone dropped a water drop and an explosion.

V:   Yeah.



	M:	Yeah whatever that look like [inaudible at 45:19] and mess around and drop the water guide on. It really wasn’t funny.

V:   Yeah I know what that- aw man.



	M:	[Laughter] Boom! But anyway he didn’t- we didn’t have test tubes and stuff we had one element which I think chalk’s an element and stuff like that. We had one and a lot of stuff from there was out dated but we had it because t tell you the truth it really it really wasn’t a chemical thing but you know what would come out of that? 1952, Dr. Aubrey Henry in Miami was the first Black to be admitted at





Mt. Sinai Hospital to work in there. Dr. Harvard Hampton would own East Coast now, he’s everything, he’s everything. I don’t know if you’ve heard but Harvard is someone- everything. There’s just so many people who graduated- Jesse Bennett Sams who wrote that book about the White mother and stuff, have you read that book?

	V:	I haven’t.



	M:	It’s a good book to read, it’s a good book to read. V:	What’s it called?

	M:	White Mother.



	V:	White Mother.



	M:	Mhm by Jesse Bennett Sams. V:	Okay.

	M:	It’s about Fort Myers and during the lynching of those boys is included in there. V:	Oh they talk about the lynching in Fort Myers?

	M:	Oh yes sir, yes sir, yes sir. I read it two or three times. V:	is it specifically on-

	M:	Fort Myers.



	V:	Oh wow okay.



	M:	These two young Black girls were helped by this White lady over there off of Huff Street somewhere down there and make a long story short, she helped them and she found out how poor they was [inaudible at 00:46:53] Their mother died, their daddy was sick all the time, the house, one of them houses kinda like I lived in over there in the ghetto. You could sit out there and look through our doors and





stuff like that but they were they were really poor the two girls really took care of themselves and this White lady took up for them. Took up with them and they would go to her house every day and things like that make a long story short and she would take of them just like a mother. Just like a- father was in the bed and they would come over and see him so when- and when the boys were lynched that time they had to hide. Everybody had to lock the- lock the doors cause the people come through- come out here looking for a little boy [inaudible at 00:47:39] they called him and they went all up under the house. The girls said they ran up under the house, they went beneath the house and said just when they bout ready to look you know up under their house a catch ran out one of there so that distracted them and they didn’t- they didn’t look up under there.

But that lady came out to check on them and stuff like that but to make it a long story short but they caught the boy. That last one. First boy they caught, he was in jail.

	V:	Yep, yep. They overpowered-



	M:	Yeah, yeah the key probably was sitting on the wall like they used to do in Mississippi, leave the key up there for them and they would take him out. They took him out and right down there where that railroad go cross Martin Luther King there somewhere down in there they carried him along there and they lowered him up with bullets and stuff. Then they started looking for the other boy okay so he tried to get on a train and ri- you know ride out and they caught him. They killed him in the same spot. The unloaded on him then they put a rope around





him and stuff like that. They drove him up and down what was Martin Luther King anyway was Anderson Avenue then, it was a dirt road really.

	V:	Yep.



	M:	Thank Lord it wasn’t asphalt and when they got through dragging him up and down people in this community was scared half to death [inaudible at 00:48:57] and they took him down to what is the bottom down there and they hung him up- hung him up in a tree and left him there. Sherriff Tippin shows up you know just like in the movies, the [inaudible at 00:49:13] shows up after [inaudible at 00:49:14] kill everybody but that’s-that’s what they did and those boys- and I don’t know where they’re buried, I live right by the cemetery really and where they buried the grave I don’t know where the graves of them are but I haven’t heard anything. But our assistant principal at the Dunbar, that first Dunbar I worked there, one of them was his brother so you know his idea about Caucasian what it was.

	V:	Oh really?



	M:	Yeah. Daniel Jackson. V:	Is he still around?

	M:	No he’s dead.



	V:	Oh sorry.



	M:	Passed on. I didn’t realize why he hated them so until somebody told me, you know one of those boys was his brother, oh you’re kidding. Yeah.

	V:	Wow.



	M:	Yeah. Now you can go on I was just throwing that in there.





	V:	Yeah no I know. Did they ever- I mean I know this would have to be a really recent thing- did they ever talk about making a memorial for the two boys?

	M:	I haven’t heard anything. I don’t know if they even got any relatives here or not I really honest to God don’t know.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	I don’t know and I’ve [inaudible at 00:50:21] if they buried them did they have [inaudible at 00:50:24] to mark the graves know what I’m saying. Since there was a boat that brought out these two little White girls. This kid was out there playing, I said be real.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	There was no bushes or nothing out there you could see it from the road. [Inaudible at 00:50:38] was in the same neighborhood down there off Cranford down there.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	Over by the same neighborhood. They were out there and they probably made those girls say. Then I had another thing I looked up, prior to that headline in the news press was “Negro [inaudible at 00:50:57] from White girls.” This was on First Street somewhere out there. This was prior to that incident that happened there but they couldn’t never catch nobody.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	Yeah I said, yeah he went upstairs in the house and where was everybody? Sleep or something like that and the girls started screaming and hollering and





going on like that, said there was a Black man in the house. I f he was he was crazy.

	V:	Yeah. Do you- cause you researched this a lot- do you know what the- do you know who the girls were? Cause I know they always talk about the girls as these random White girls but I know there’s another person, I don’t remember what her name is but she’s from another university. She’s down here researching like me but she’s specifically looking at the lynching and she’s trying to find who the girls were because she’s trying to learn more about it through that.

M:  One lady that talked about it cause she lived in the same area and she’s dead but she talked about the two girls and she- matter fact it was in the news press but I don’t know what year was- it in the 70s cause Ms. Ware is dead now and she was saying, I know, I know about it. Those kids were out there- gotcha.

V:   Got him?



M:   Mhm.



V:   Perfect.



	M:	Those kids were out there playing and somebody saw them like that [inaudible at 00:52:14] girls and boys and said no no. So her name was Mary Ware and she was Ms. Ware cause they really all lived in the same neighborhood down there off Cranford.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	Yeah for a long time White, Blacks- because you know this place originally started- all the Black folk used to live downtown.

	V:	Really?





	M:	Yeah it’s called Pinetucky. V:	Oh yeah I have heard of that. M:	Yeah.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	They lived down there.



	V:	Is that where- what’s his name- Nelson Tillis- is that where he originally settled down?

	M:	Nelson Tillis- I think he originally settled down at over at North Fort Myers. V:	Okay.

	M:	New Harmony- wasn’t North Fort Myers then- New Harmony and so that then but his descendants a few of them maybe still living here. Some of them might still be living here but I knew Ms. Lider died, I can’t think of her name but- I’m trying to think of some of his relatives at one time cause they all used to have a reunion together and it’s some-it’s it’s- I’m not- between you and me it’s some Caucasian right here that’s related to the man but you know.

	V:	To Nelson Tillis? Yeah, his wife was White.



	M:	Yeah, the Channins, the Channins family and some more. A lot of those there they’re related but I don’t know how they be- come together now but they [inaudible at 00:53:46] I don’t know how it was especially the later died and then the daughter died I can’t think of it but anyway.

	V:	Yeah no I love talking about all the old history like we’re straying off like the old history about you but still like just talking about Fort Myers in general. I mean it’s





such an interesting story. One of the thing I wanted to ask about since you were also- what year- do you remember what year you started teaching?

	M:	1964.



	V:	1964, okay and you start teaching at- M:	Dunbar High School.

	V:	Yeah the old Dunbar High School.



	M:	The new Dunbar High School on Edison that’s the old Dunbar over there on High



Street.



	V:	Okay.



	M:	Dunbar Community School that two story stuck old building that’s- that’s the old Dunbar. The one out there on Edison [inaudible at 00:54:41] that’s the new one but the one I worked at was the first new one back then in 1964 I started working I think 61- 61 to 62 that old one first was built and it was a nice school. It was a nice school but it had a lot short things to it.

	V:	Here I want to show you a thing, it’s on my phone and then like attached to the interview I’ll just like clip the resources I have. I want to see if I can find it because- oh lord- I’d have to read them all but essentially I heard in- cause we were talking about how the school I mean the city in general was slow, I guess you can say, to integrate or whatever you want to call it. I heard in 19- or I read in the news press in 1964 that the school board had come up with a desegregation plan but they never did anything with it. Do you know what that plan was?

	M:	You want me to tell you what it was? V:	What.





	M:	I was working there. V:	Okay.

	M:	This is the White teachers over here. They put some White teachers in the Dunbar school and teach certain subjects and it was mostly like people that they didn’t want so they sent them. I know one was a music teacher another I don’t know what that guy taught but they were nice. We treated them nice too.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	We were more acceptable now I’ll just tell you the truth most Black people were most acceptable than a lot of Caucasians are. I’ll accept one they don’t bother me I’m good.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	That’s why I try to [inaudible at 00:56:18] I don’t want to use the word White cause to me that shows- some people thinking they use the word White that makes them superior so I call them what the anthropologists call them Caucasian, ain’t that right. Say I ain’t wrong. Okay but anyway now where am I, 1964 that was the so-called integration and the teacher they took out- the head of my department right about there. Social Studies department, they took her and sent her over to another school. They sent another Black teacher to another school that was integration at the time.

	V:	Yeah, just getting teachers.



M:  No students. Then I think I don’t know when [inaudible at 00:57:11] went over to Fort Myers but I know they started getting ready to close everything up in [19]68 [19]67-[19]68. [19]68 the guy called me out of the junior high basketball courts





and I was killing everything around there really I just- I ain’t bragging but anyway so I get a call from the principal at North Fort Myers High School and he asked me would I mind- did I want to come over there and teach?

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	So I’d already know the man said you gon’ go somewhere and you gon’ have a job they know they’ve been told that. So I said I agree I can’t think of the name of him but he wasn’t too bad so I went over there to North Fort Myers High School, that was integration. The kids went when they close the school in [19]69 the school was closed they out a lock on the chain- on the gate and the kids that I went with over there at North High, it was children, everything seemed to be alright group but I remember I went into the cafeteria that day- went into the cafeteria, got my little tray- and the teachers was- secretaries and things was sitting at the table so I figured this is where all of them sit so I had my tray and I sit with my tray down, some of them got up.

	V:	Wow.



	M:	Some of the secretaries got up so I went straight to the office and told them. I wasn’t- you know I ain’t take no crap so I just told them so one of the ladies in there- that lady and I we became- and her son we all real good friends, a Caucasian lady and I told her, I said, I don’t why, I said why they got up when I sat down. She said, who did that! You know she said, don’t worry it won’t happen no more. It’s like that so she’s the head honcho I guess in there.

	V:	Yeah.





	M:	But anyway it wasn’t too bad. It started off kinda slow and day I had I took a sick day and I was looking at the TV that morning, I was sitting there and I saw all these Black kids walking across the bridge, the old Edison bridge, I said now what- did all the Black kids walked out? They walked out because they didn’t- in the Black school we had pep rallies, we had homecoming parades cause I was in charge of getting tractors and things pulled over. They made floats just like the Edison Pageant of Light floats. They made- each class made floats and stuff. My job was to go to these places Ford and John Deere and get tractors and they let us have the tractors and stuff and we had the Black school. We had big parades, then they got over there and they weren’t doing nothing. The band- we had a good band, we a real good band. I was in the first band they got in 1949 and we got in the Edison Pageant of Light I think in 1950 or something like that put us behind the horses and we ducking crap. Anyway and those kids well they were used to marching like A&M, FAMU, [Marching Beats] like that so they [inaudible at 1:00:14] the band masters was playing these songs sound like death open on someone at that football field and the one boy he was coming off the field that night and he was- he’s swinging his trumpet like that and the band master started yelling at him- you know that boy he took [inaudible at 01:00:30] uniform still on put it on- he and his brother and some more, they walked out. The next thing I know they had the walkout, they didn’t have no pep rallies and stuff so a lot of these kids were protesting.

	V:	Yeah.





	M:	Said we not gon’ come ov- we don’t mind coming over here but we’re not gon’ go backwards so North Fort Myers I didn’t say nothing about North Fort Myers High School. Had the first Black homecoming queen.

	V:	Oh really?



	M:	Had the first Black quarterback. V:	Wow.

	M:	What’d you say?



	V:	Is that in Lee County or in-



	M:	Lee County, yeah, Lee County. V:	Okay.

	M:	And we had Black cheerleaders, stuff like that. We didn’t have no riots like February is Black history month.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	Some of these other schools, I ain’t calling the name of the schools, so-called great schools. Every February they had problems, we didn’t have no problems.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	No.



	V:	Why do you think it was different at North Fort Myers then cause I was actually going to ask about the- well the riot that happened at North- not North- Fort Myers High School.

	M:	Fort Myers High, every February. V:	Every February?

	M:	Every February-





	V:	Like clockwork?



M:  Black history month, Black history month, you could look for them they- my friend Cory Steve was working over at Fort Myers that was where he was working.

They put the dogs on him and he had to them I’m the instructor.



	V:	They put the dogs on him? M:	Yep.

	V:	Who the-



	M:	I guess whoever was in charge of them German Shepherds.



	V:	I was going to ask the Sheriff’s department or the Fort Myers police department? M:	I guess whoever was- whoever had the dogs.

	V:	Yeah.



M:  But every year they had problems- they had problems over there. We never had problems. I know a couple of times they had some fights at North well that that’s almost to be expected.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	Matter of fact I got to school one morning and got to school one morning, I open my desk drawer, somebody put a- first I saw the little tail moving like that- in my desk- and I pull the drawer and I saw the little tail doing like this so I pull a little faster, I said, snake!

	V:	Snake in your desk?



	M:	It was lizards, they put a lizard- V:	Oh, lizard.





	M:	Yeah they put an iguana, they were rolling even Black kids was laughing you know. But other than that I didn’t have no problem but I had a one [inaudible at 01:02:53] twenty-one or twenty-two years old in my classroom and so I told him, I said, [inaudible at 01:02:58]

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	They said well his dad is such and such so. So I said okay so one day he walked out my classroom, Caucasian boy, he walked out the classroom so I said, hey- I don’t recall the name- I said hey where you- I said where you going boy? I said, don’t walk out the room like that. He said, my daddy said that if I hear a siren to go out the door and see where it’s going. That’s just what he said so I said okay. I said, go on go on where you want to go. I had put down his F already, wouldn’t need no problem. So I had another guy, I had to [inaudible at 01:03:34] research paper, in the Black school, any Black kid that ever went to me in any school, North anyway said Mr. Mayo we don’t require you to have a re- you know what- you know I said at least five pages. I said but I want you to read five books and- with this list. So they tried and I said I don’t want no book report. I said I want some foot noting and stuff like that just trying to help them out really. So in other words, I gave them the benefit of what I never got in high school. I said I want foot noting and everything in there.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	I said that’s what I want, I want to know what you’re doing. So this one guy, he gon’ try me. He come [inaudible at 01:04:11] and he done wrote some kind of crap and then the reddest pencil I could find, I put a big old F in it just like that.





So he walks outside the room and down to the office and he told the assistant principal what I’d done so the man sent for me so I went down there and I said, what’s the problem? I asked, what’s the problem? And he said, so and so said you gave him an F. I said, no he earned it. I said, I don’t give out no F, you know that. Id I could’ve gave him something else I would’ve gave it to him. I said but, I said, he didn’t do what I asked him to do. He said, well you must not know who he is. I said, no who is he? Oh his daddy is in the Klan. So I said, I said, how many nose does he have, he got one nose. I said how many eye does he have, he said he got two eyes. I said how many ears does he have? He said, he got two ears. I said, I can tell you what word I used. I said, if you want to keep them you better don’t bother me, that’s just what I told him. I said I don’t care who he is, Klansman or whatever. I said, I’m not worried about no Klan, this is in the 1960s.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	I said its 1970 if I was in Mississippi, I’d been kind of nervous.



	V:	I know they’ve always been around, was the Klan ever a big thing down here?



	M:	I know one time when they first started letting people vote here, [19]57 [19]58 somewhere around there. Somewhere around there they- when they first started Blacks started voting. I think I was going to school at the time and some guy burned the cross.

	V:	Yup, Yup, I’ve heard about this.





	M:	On Cranford, it used to be Cranford Avenue down there and used to be little [inaudible at 01:05:52] so he gon’ burn the cross, he had to run for his life. They didn’t- people didn’t run away from it, they ran to it.

	V:	Yeah, yeah, that was the guy that- I don’t remember what his name was but he was running for sheriff and I think- I want to say he was running against Snag Thompson.

	M:	Sheywanica?



	V:	I don’t know.



	M:	Sheywanica ran against Thompson cause Snag Thompson has been sheriff for so long.

	V:	Yeah it was in the [19]40s, I think Snag Thompson like when he came in.



	M:	Snag would’ve said you can do anything you want out here. I mean the city limit stopped right where that big disc run there, that’s where the city limit stopped.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	East, that was all county. East, everything east over there was Johnson Court and East Court and all that stuff where Franklin Park and all that stuff is now was nothing but woods and pine needles but Johnson Court, all that was county.

Every bit of that was county. I don’t know when they came into- turned that into a city but that’s where it stopped. [Inaudible at 01:06:51] you can do anything you want over there.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	If you knew the man, you knew the man, you could do what you want. V:	So- well actually I would like to ask he basically just let Dunbar be?





	M:	Oh yeah, this is so and so right here. This is so and so [inaudible at 01:07:10] let him spent a night in jail and go home.

	V:	Yeah.



	M:	Stuff like that you know.



	V:	Actually I wonder if you know any people um let’s see. I have a picture- actually do I have it- a printed out version? I might have a printed out version. It’s a picture actually the Black citizen patrol that the Lee County sheriff’s department-

	M:	Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.



	V:	And it’s got all the people, I think I have it on me. I thought I did unless I gave it to Coop Farrell, I interviewed Coop Farrell, he might have taken it.

	M:	I used to work with Coop. V:	Oh did you?

	M:	Yeah, I was like on the weekend on auxiliaries cop that I worked with, a guy name Rafia Newton that’s who I rode with but Coop and them they didn’t have but one car at the time and so we had to come and get the car.

	V:	They only had one-oh well-



	M:	At that time, at that time, one police car for the Black guys.



	V:	Where is it- see this is the annoying thing about these phones is- like with at least like pictures like you know where everything is. The phone it’s like all- you can’t like put stuff-

	M:	You got a new phone, I got an old phone. V:	Where is it, I’d just seen it the other day. M:	Who in the picture?





	V:	It’s a picture of the citizen-



	M:	Citizen Patrol- I knew- let me see who I knew- Carlton White, I remember Carlton White because Carlton- Carlton got killed, he was shot.

	V:	In the duty?



	M:	Not during duty but he was pulling his new authority and this young boy shot him. V:	Oh wow.

	M:	He shot him a number of times, he took his own gun and shot him. His own pistol. Took Carlton’s pistol and shot him.

	V:	I can’t find it.



	M:	It kind of slowed everything down a little bit because I was city then. V:	Wait you said it was one of your students that had it?

	M:	Ex-student.



	V:	Oh wow. Alright.



	M:	That was disturbing so you know I- V:	Yeah.

	M:	[inaudible at 01:09:34] at a nightclub, I sat at a nightclub so. V:	Well, we’ve been going for more than an hour.

	M:	Yes, twenty minutes.



	V:	Do you want to keep going because I still have more topics. M:	I’ll let go at 2:30 because I’m going out somewhere.

	V:	Okay that’s fine, so we got twelve more minutes then. I guess the last thing I want to ask about then- cause we talked about a ton of stuff- is- I know you said you go to Mount Olive-





	M:	Mount Olive [inaudible at 01:10:03] church African Methodist Episcopal Church. 18- 1787 founded and I always ask people do you understand that? Two great things happened in 1787.

	V:	What are those two?



	M:	I ask that question, constitution of the United States.



	V:	Oh that’s right, that’s when we got rid of the Articles of Confederation. M:	and the [inaudible at 01:10:25] of the AME Church.

	V:	Wow yeah you got me there.



	M:	Don’t you forget, don’t you forget that.



V:  I was trying to think because once you said constitution, I’m like oh yeah. People always say 1776 but then it’s like I mean. I know Mount Olive was separate from Friendship Baptist and Isadore Edwards.

M:   Yes, yes, yes ,yes.



	V:	But do you remember ever like participating with any of the things that like the NAACP was doing? At the time?

	M:	I never participated with the NAACP. Not that I have anything against it, I’ve never done- I’ve never jumped into anything that they were doing.

	V:	You were just doing your own thing?



	M:	Yeah, I back them. I back them one hundred percent but I never participated with them.

	V:	So you never like did anything- oh yeah you already said you didn’t do anything. M:	Not here no in Tallahassee I did.

	V:	Oh you did in Talla- oh yeah you talked about the boycott.





	M:	Yeah, yeah.



	V:	Wait so was that- wait- that’s the Tallahassee bus boycott was that like CK Steel?

	M:	Yeah.



	V:	Oh oh my God okay-



	M:	One of my best friends was Speed, Reverend Speed and his son and all them over we would run together. Yeah, cop stops us one night, my brother- my brother had a 1957 Fairlane Ford now that was viewed as a pretty car. So he let me use it one night and I asked the guys LD Speed and them and Speed’s son and we were coming down the road, an old dirt road. All pavement now but it was dirt road and so we come down so I saw the red light come on. I said, oh Lord you know what was I doing, I couldn’t have been speeding so anyway the cop come up and he said, you know you went through a stop sign. I said, a stop sign where, where the stop sign at cause it’s coming from off of Orange Street which is paved now with big [inaudible at 01:12:15] AME Church out there. So I said, I didn’t see any stop sign sir. Know what they say-they always teach you be polite. So I said, I didn’t see any stop sign sir. I don’t know what’s- what’s what.

So LD was sitting in the front seat, LD was sitting- just so happened the Lord would fix it so we were right near LD’s daddy’s grocery store, wasn’t far from there and LD said, don’t worry about it Mayo I’m going to tell my dad- see my daddy. I said oh that’s alright you ain’t got to do all that. I said [inaudible at 01:12:51] he left us alone. Yeah he left us alone yeah.





	V:	Alright so then- actually knowing all that whatchamacallit. See we got to do like a part two of this interview or something like that but instead of talking about Fort Myers we got to talk about a bunch of the north Florida stuff because I mean like- even aw man, you know I’ll tell you what, I really hope one of my history professors doesn’t hear this because when he knows that I don’t remember the name of the girl that you were talking about with the first- the first rape of Black woman that they prosecuted.

	M:	Yeah, yeah, I can’t think of her name either.



	V:	Let me tell you my professor would have my head because- let me stop it, I’ll stop it here before I get more of my stuff on here.

	M:	Yeah.





[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Amanda Lorenzo, September 19, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, January 22, 2021 Final edited by:	Sandra Romero, February 2, 2021