AAHP 552; Coleman; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 552 Marion Coleman Interviewed by Ryan Thompson on March 1, 2018

1 hour, 54 minutes | 57 pages



Abstract: Mr. Marion Coleman was born in Grove Park, Florida, and moved to Gainesville when he was four years old. In this interview, he describes his experiences growing up and living his life in Gainesville, including becoming one of Gainesville’s first Black firefighters.



Mr. Coleman relates stories about becoming a boy scout, a skilled baker, an adept roller skate dancer and dance instructor, and a number of other facets of his life. His stories about his firefighting career include the rigors of training, the peers he admired, the discrimination he faced, and his efforts to achieving excellence. He also relates some of his experiences going out on calls, as well as giving tours at the station to schoolchildren, and his service work in the community.



Mr. Coleman also recalls some of his family history: his great-great grandfather’s relationship to the Seminole Tribe of Florida, and his grandfather’s experiences as a moonshine distiller. He also relates stories about not only going to Lincoln High School, but about some of the prominent figures who were involved with the school.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; African American Firefighters; Firefighters; Integration; Lincoln High School; Civil Rights Movement]



AAHP 552

Interviewee: Marion Coleman Interviewer: Ryan Thompson Date: March 1, 2018



	T:	Today’s March 1, 2018. My name is Ryan Thompson. I’m with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program of UF. I’m here in Northeast Gainesville at the home of Mr. Marion Coleman. And Mr. Coleman, as we start, could I ask you just to say your name, spell your name, and give your date of birth please?

	C:	Yes. Marion Coleman, M-A-R-I-O-N C-O-L-E-M-A-N, birthdate December 31st, 1940.

	T:	Excellent. And could you tell me about where you were born and what your early years were like?

	C:	Okay. I was born in Grove Park Florida. Moved to Gainesville in 1944. And a interesting thing at my birth: I was born on New Year’s Eve, and the grand prize for the firstborn of the year was an electric iron. And my mom won the electric iron, and she couldn’t use a iron until 1944, when we moved from Grove Park to Gainesville, because we didn’t have electricity. And I was four years old, and I remember my mom using that iron for the first time, you know? So after we moved to Gainesville in 1944, my dad got a job with Firestone, and later got a job with Atlantic Coastline Railroad. And he built this house in 1947 and we been here ever since. We got four blocks in here, 450 by 120. And this was a dirt road when we got here. It was called Court Street. And my elementary years was with Williams Elementary School. And I went to Lincoln High School. I started at the old Lincoln and then went over to the new Lincoln. And when we got to new Lincoln, I went north after graduation and I went to baking school in New York University. And I took two years in culinary arts and baking. And the first job that I





had when I come back from baking school was in the Gainesville Shopping Center. And I baked and decorated the biggest cake had ever been baked and decorated in Gainesville to this day. The cake was eight feet seven inches long, and it was like five feet and four inches high. I have some pictures of it right here. It was in the second anniversary of the Gainesville Shopping Center, and I decorated that cake, and the owner got so jealous he fired me because he couldn’t do it. He learned to bake and decorated looking over his dad’s shoulder. And a guy named Bill Lamar from WDVH come and was saying, “We going talk with the decorator of the cake.” And so, my boss man got jealous. He say, “Ask me about the cake. I’m the owner.” And I had a towel in my hand. I was wiping the icing off my hand to grab the mic, and I threw the towel down. “Oh, you throw the towel down? You quit? I don’t you! I don’t need you. Go ahead, get up. Go home, go home!” So that was how I lost my job. And I had been working there about two months. And this is a cake that I made for my Lieutenant at the fire department. That was his wedding cake, and I was doing things like this.

	T:	So you retained the skill even after you changed your career?



	C:	Yeah, and then I went into the cadet program. I was a janitor at Williams Elementary and I went into the cadet program. I wanted to be a motorcycle cop because I’m a biker. And what happened on day, I went and rode my motorcycle back to class—we’d take out after lunch break—and I rode my motorcycle back, and we went out to the track to look at the two top bike riders show out on their Harleys. So when they got out there and did what they was going do, I jumped out there and did what I was going do on a Mach III Kawasaki 500. And one of





them told me right then, he say, “I’ll see to it that you never be a police officer.” And what happened then, he pushed up another guy in the program to write a condemning letter, and he made everybody sign it in the program but one guy. One guy say, “I don’t feel that way. You can’t make me sign that letter about Coleman.” And so, they signed the letter. When I heard about that—okay, the cadet program gave us six months of being a police or firefighter. So we had took the firefighter course first, and then we was taking the part with the police department. So I went right down there and I told Chief James at the Fire Department that this guy was writing this condemning letter. He said, “Tell you what you do.” I said, “What’s that?” He said, “Go up town and tell Jim Hearn you want to take the test to be a firefighter.” And that was on my lunch hour. And so, I went to Jim Hearn up to city hall, and me and Jimmy Hart took the test at the same time, and we both passed. And so, when we went back to lunch, after lunch I was running late, because I had to go home and got my uniforms out of the washer and dryer that my wife had did the day before. And so, I didn’t need them for the next day. So I, “Let me go home and get them,” take them back they weren’t smelling. Man, I walk back in there running late in the cadet class, and when I walked in the door everybody was silent. I walked back in that door and handed my uniforms, a Winn-Dixie paper bag, and I walked up to Rex Moten [6:15], and I set that wet paper bag right in the middle of his ink blotter. I said, “As of now, I’m a Gainesville Firefighter.” And I looked around and did them like that. And he say, “You can’t do that.” I say, “I’m a firefighter. Good luck, y’all.” And I’ma tell you something: back then, in 1970, the EOC had the Washington





interviewers and whatnot to come to Gainesville to investigate how many Black professors they had versus the Whites. And so they said, “While we’re here, let’s check the city.” And so they say, “How many Black workers y’all got?” “Oh, we got two thousand, so and so and so.” “How many Black Policemen?” “None. We had two, but they retired.” “How many Black firefighters you got?” “None. They can’t pass the test.” And they say, ”Okay, well, tell you what we going do: You will have ten Blacks in a row in the fire department, and you have ten Blacks in a row at the police department. And we going give them $10,000 dollars a year to go to Santa Fe until they can pass the test.” And so really, the cadet program was kind of stuffed on the city of Gainesville. It left a bitter taste in they mouth.

And so now, when you say “ten in a row,” White were hired in there. See what I’m saying? So this meant the good old boys got to stand back and wait. You know? Now, y’all can sit there and bullshit and say how long it’s going to take us to pass the test? We getting paid to go to Santa Fe. The first six months, they did the first class, they give us six months in police training. Six months in the firefighting training. Okay? And it was half and half. Okay, so the second class, which is I was at, they give us three months training of police, and three months training of fire, and then went half and half again. They say, “Mr. [inaudible 8:34], we need some more money.” They say, “No, wait, wait now. You running them twice as fast. You can’t do it like that! You got to give them six months, six months.” Anyways, somehow it got out that they didn’t want no cadet come up to be a success. So what they did, they say, “If we can make it seem like that two of them can’t really succeed, or get promoted, or get to the top, we would have





won.” So they picked out one fireman and one policeman. And they never got a promotion in the Gainesville Police Department or the Gainesville Fire Department. Marion Coleman was in the fire department, and Officer Johnny Horne was in the police department. We worked over twenty-one, twenty-two years, and never got a promotion. He retired twice and went back. And he’s dead and gone now, but he never got recognized. Neither have I. So when that happened, now here’s what they did: after they got they ten in a row on both sides, they could hire Black guys off the street and put them overtop of us— which happened two or three times—and say, “Keep your foot on them. We don’t want them to go nowhere.” So automatically, they had they clique, and we had ours. They wouldn’t invite us to their pool parties and whatnot, you know, and we didn’t either. I mean, we’d know they was there. See, “You a peon and so and so,” you know? “You been here twenty-odd years, and I come here two years and I’m over you. I’m a lieutenant. Look where you at; you still a firefighter.” I go, “Well, so what, baby boy? Hey, I’m still getting that money, you know? I can send my children to the same college you send yours. We making the same amount of money, just a little bit different.” But I would always have things to come back at them to put the shoe back on they foot. I mean, I was a really smart thinker and whatnot, like that. When I was in the cadet training in New York, I went roller skating a lot. In the two years I was up there going to school, I would go roller skating to stay out of trouble. So I fell into the good luck to meet Don and Beverly Mataloni, the people that owned the rink. I told them, I said, ”Look, I’m coming straight. I’m from Florida, scared, ain’t been in New York before in my life. Living





in Brooklyn—Prospect Heights, at that” They say, “Well, we going teach how to skate.” And they commenced to teaching me how to dance skate. And I got very good at it. Okay, while I’m in cadet program, they building Skating Palace out here. So I went out there, I say, “How y’all doing?” [hey say, “Well.” I say, “Look here: do y’all need a skating instructor out here?” And the guy say, “No, we got a skating instructor.” I say, “Oh, okay then.” I sit there and I watch them build the building. So when they got ready to pack it with the rocks, and then they was going to put the asphalt on top for the floor. So I went out there that day on they lunch hour, and I had a tube of cups, a big old bag of ice, and a twelve pack of Pepsi Cola. And I say, “Hey y’all, take a break and I’ll give you a soda.” They say, “Okay.” So then they was sitting there taking a break, drinking a Pepsi. And I say, “You know, I can do the Glide Walks. I can do the Progressive Tango. I can do the Siesta Tango. I can do the Skater’s March.” He say, “My! You well up on your dances!” I said, “Yep.” And so they were just sitting there talking. They didn’t say nothing again. So then, when they opened, I went out there, I say, “Hey man, you need a janitor or whatever?” He say, “Yeah, we need a janitor.” I say, “I’ll take that.” And so they say okay. And so, the first two nights, I didn’t take my roller skates. I used theirs. They say, “We got to mop in the so-and-so area.” I run down there with the mop, and mop it up and whatnot, you know? The third night, I went early. I carried my skates. And I said, “Wayne.” They said, “Yeah?” I say, “Can I warm up a little bit? I brought my skates. I want to want to warm up and practice on my edges before the crowd get here, before I hit the clock.” He say, “Yeah, yeah, yeah, let’s see what you can do. What you want to hear?” I say,





“With Pen In Hand.” He said, “Okay.” Man, he went and put it on; that’s a very famous music you skate by.

	T:	What’s it called?



	C:	“With Pen in Hand.” T:	Okay.

	C:	It’s the name of a song. T:	Okay.

	C:	And so, man, I got up there on the floor and started skating and everything, and he say, “Marion!” I say, “Yeah?” He say, “You know how to do the Skater’s March?” I say, “I think so.” He changed records, so then I started doing the Skater’s March. He said, “Wow! Come up to the booth for a minute.” A friend of mine named Louis Williams, he was a cab driver. And he would bring this little Black girl to the skating rink and sit there waiting to take her back home. He say, “You want to be the skating instructor?” I say, “Yeah.” He say, “Okay. You know where we can find a janitor?” And I looked round saw Louis. I said, “Yeah. I said, “Louis!” He say, “Yeah?” I say, “You want to be the janitor right here?” He say, “Yeah!” I handed him the mop. He say, “You be here Sunday morning. We want you to teach the beginners. It’s mostly timing and rhythm and whatnot, and balance.” I said, “Sure.” So the first Sunday morning I went there, and man, it was like eight kids there. I didn’t know their parents were paying thirty-six dollars an hour for one hour of skating. I was getting five dollars a person. So that Sunday I’m out there, man, and I taught the little first things about the balance, you know, taking your foot straight up and down and whatnot. Tapping on the





rail. The next Sunday, the word got out so quick that “you should see this guy here at the skating rink”; oh, my goodness! So then, the second Sunday, there was about thirteen. And so all them still paying this big money. I’m doing this and doing that. Some of them couldn’t hardly stand up and do this. So the third week, I went there, I put them outside on the carpet. And I say, “Walk over there. Skate over there, skate back.” So then, a couple of them went over there and they fell and did this and did that. So I said, “Okay. Now, you all go over there and get in line. We going start our up and down group practice. Up and down. I’ll be there in a minute.” So what I did, I took the inside back wheel and tightened it, and the outside front wheel and tightened it. Now it doesn’t have a lot of wiggle, so you don’t fall no more. Man! Them kids what was falling down, they was right along with the rest of them that wasn’t. And the mommas was saying, “Ahh! Oh, she got it! This guy is good!” [Laughter] And so, everything just really fell into place.

One Sunday morning, I looked up, and here come a firefighter, a lieutenant in uniform. I’m looking and saying, “Golly, what he doing down here?” So he walked up and identified hisself, and Frank said, “What’s the matter?” He say, “I got a report on Firefighter Coleman.” He say, “What’s that?” He say, “They say he out here skating with White girls.” And so he say, “You damn right he skating with White girls. There they is out there; six, seven, eight goddamn years old!” [Laughter] Man that pissed Frank off, you know? And so I skate over there. I say, “Lieutenant Sterman, what’s going on, man?” He say, “We got the word you was out here skating with White girls.” Well, I’m going say it like this, now: at night, I was a floor guard. And the senior girls, they would say, “Mr. Coleman.” I’d say,





“Yeah?” They would say, “Show us how to do the Siesta Tango.” And so, I would skate, and they would follow behind me. And somebody didn’t like that. And they said I was out there skating with White girls like I was hugged all up with them and all this kind of stuff. And Frank said, “The man is—he some of them daddy. He taught these kids how to skate. Don’t think it like that!” But they had did a lot of things to me that didn’t really give me a fair shake or whatever the case may be. Like the 12th of December—no, 12th of January. They had a promotional exercise at Ironwood at eleven o’clock. And also, there was supposed to be a recognition of Florida State Fire College forty-fifth year anniversary. And I was in the first class. So they was supposed to honor us. And Gainesville had they rep come up [inaudible 18:36] and say, “Well, thank y’all for coming. We can eat now.” And the people come all the way from Ocala, or lower, and they had everything: a big old plaque with my name and everything on it; a great big old diploma that I was supposed to get in a frame. They didn’t even recognize those people there for being in the building. They didn’t introduce them. They didn’t say nothing about what’s here or nothing. They act like they wasn’t even there. And so me and Bernard later, B.B. Magic. We was just sitting out there: ”Well,” I say, “they stuck it to me again, man.” And so then he said, “I don’t know why.” And one guy said he was a district chief, and I carried him in a short house fire.

Rusty Barrett. He said, he say, “Yeah, I had to get them to write a special request to the congressman”—and call the congressman name, whoever he was at the time—"and get special permission for him to be waived as a qualification to be a firefighter with the height and the weight.” You supposed to stand five feet





five, weigh 155 pounds. This guy was like four feet six, and weigh about 130 pound. [Laughter] And they got him in the fire department. And within a month’s time, he was driving the firetruck; didn’t even know where the hell he was going. But he was a paramedic. Okay? So now, really, what’s been going on, the city and the county is fighting over rescue services. And they said it’s Gainesville Fire Rescue? Well, how you going be a rescue if you ain’t got no ambulance? The city don’t even own a ambulance. So, what they do, they’re duplicating services to get money from the government. And this been going on thirty years. And see, what happens, Junior James, the man that trained all the firefighters, when the new chief said he was going to turn it into Gainesville Fire and Rescue, at that time the county owned the hospital. So the county say, “You pick up in the county, we going pick up in the city.” And so he say, “Oh yeah?” They said, “”Where you going take them to?” And he say, “What you mean?” And they say, “Well, we own the hospital. If you pick up in the city, you going have to bring all the money at one time because we not going give you a credit bill.” And so, that cut the city’ throat at that time, trying to take over the county. And so they run that chief out of town about maybe about a later—him and the city manager. But so, Junior James trained all the firefighters. But he was the one that stood up to the Chief Don Harkins, and told him, said, “You can’t do this, man. This can’t be did.” So right then, everybody who wanted to be a paramedic or a rescue, they went running behind Harkins, and the real firefighters that really didn’t want that, we hung in there with Junior James. And was is what split the fire department up to, you know, legalism, bickering and this, that, and back and forth. Right now? I





don’t think you could take half of the firefighters down there right now, if you told them to take the test, on the town’s consideration? I don’t believe they could pass. Here in this book, I say, “Why me?” At this time, I was the oldest man in the fire department. I was fifty-one years old. This was the year before I retired. I took the test with sixteen rookies watching me.

	T:	So, this is like the training area?



	C:	Yes. I’m taking the physical agility test for the fire department, to be a firefighter.



And so, sixteen rookies was looking at me. I did everything, and out of the sixteen rookies that was watching me at this time, four of them didn’t even beat my time. I made better time than they did.

	T:	How did you stay in such good shape?



	C:	Well, just being—ate healthy foods; I didn’t smoke. And now, this is Junior James right here.

	T:	Okay.



	C:	That’s the man. And when Junior James died, there was like sixty-two fire departments represented at his funeral. When I say it’s sixty-two fire departments represented, they sent an engine. Can you imagine sixty-two fire trucks at one funeral? That’s what happened. Oh, yeah.

	T:	So, he was pretty fair to African Americans.



	C:	Oh yes, by all means. Yeah, man. He was quite a guy. See, me and Jamie Hart, we were the first two Blacks to attend the Florida State Fire College. Because that was the first class. Yeah, and he was the instructor down there. He had us firsthand, with the best training that could be did, you know; he did it. And he had





trained over 1500 firefighters that—fire departments before he died. I’m going say it like this; right now—

[Break in recording for phone call]



	C:	When the fire department started the rescue services, I was thinking—well, I know the firefighter skills really fell off. Because they were leaning more to rescue because they could make more money than firefighting. They treated the Blacks down there fairly, after they got over the fact that they had to they had to have them ten in a row. So then after that, we didn’t have no whole lot of name- calling or nothing like that. I mean, everybody was too intelligent. They didn’t want they job or nothing. But the first five or six Blacks that they did have, they talked about them pretty bad. One guy, the really the first guy, a guy bragged about they taught him how to tie a slip knot, and told him to jump off the tower with it. They showed him how to tie a slip knot. And so the guy looked at them, and he said, “Man, y’all crazy!” So he just got in his car and drove off. And the second one they had, he was down there about maybe a month: Lonnie Brown. He was the second. Clyde McFadden was the first, Lonnie Brown was the second, and Johnny Benson was the third. And then, that’s when the cadet program kicked in. Frank Moore, Charles James, Nathaniel James, Freeman Robinson, Bernard Beatty, and all of those. And then, the next class was me.

But I was the first one to retire, because they still had kids. All my kids were grown and gone. So, yeah. But I did twenty-one years and eight months. And I’m going tell you something else that happened me: it was never called a training officer. I carried fourteen Blacks and twelve Whites in their first housefire. And I





did this at six months of training one, like. Six months of training in the other. I did fourteen like that. Then I did then I did twelve White like that. And was never called a training officer, but they didn’t ask nary another firefighter to do that. And when they had examination going to make the city limits larger; you know, had to have the posters on the telegrams poles that the city’s coming, you know we got fire protection and police protection. I was on both posters at two different times, yeah.

	T:	When was that?



	C:	You know. . .



	T:	I can look that up, too. I was just kind of curious, like, how far into your career you were. When you became—

	C:	Yeah. I asked a lady that was in the Gainesville Historics member; remember ability or whatever?

	T:	Mmhm.



	C:	I asked her to look it up for me. She say, “Well, I done been here for a lot of examinations; I don’t know what year you’re talking about.” I said, “Well, okay then. Well, thank you.” Just you kind of look to find out. But what I’ll do on the fourteenth of next month; the retirees are supposed to have this great big picnic area, and if our union president come, Jeff Brown; Jeff Brown might have two of those posters. I’m serious. Because—

	T:	He keeps some of it?



	C:	Yeah. He was a good Union President. He was our Local 2157 president. And he did a damn good job, man. He was a fair guy. But they ain’t never called me a





training officer. I didn’t get nothing extra. To be honest, when I left from down there, I left with a little bitter taste in my mouth. What happened was, I went and looked at them train the rookies. And this one girl, they let her cheat. And so they say, “Coleman, you got to work with her for six months.” I said, “I’ll be damned.” Now I’m going tell you something: just like I say, the group that come behind us, and they put them over us? We didn’t party with them. This guy had made District Chief; he was the man. Okay? That was his girlfriend. And I didn’t know it. And so I said, “I’m not going train her.” And they say, “Well, you going train her or else.” I said, “Okay, I’ll train her.” Now, I was on twenty year contract. At time I had did twenty-one years and eight months. So the next morning, I went down there and retired. They say, “Man! You shouldn’t’ve did that!” I say, “What? “They say, “That pissed Don King off.” And I didn’t know why, you know? And so, I went on and retired. And he told all of the Black—well, he told everybody. He say, “Everybody who go to Coleman’ retirement party, I’m going to fuck with you.” And so didn’t nary a Black show up that I trained. Fourteen of them, carried them all in the first house fire. Didn’t the first one show up. Not nary. The twelve Whites, they showed up. And so, one of them told D.K. Thompson, he say, “I tell you what: Tell us”—he say, “We ain’t going work with him. Now, if you make us work with him, my wife going be standing down there in the morning, telling what the hell’s going on down here with this district chief and his girlfriend, letting her cheat to join the fire department? Y’all done run one good man to the house, but you ain’t fixing to run nary another.” And so, what they did, they had to give her a job. What they did, they changed shifts with her. And so one of three guys on that





shift but at a different station, they say, “Hell, I ain’t going work on a shift with her! Shit, we show up at the same goddamn housefire helping each other. What the hell, man? I’ll be goddamn!” So what they did, they sent her to another station.

And when somebody called and told her she was on the way, and the Lieutenant at the station, he called control center. He say, “Hey, we going be closed until a qualified firefighter show up. We out of service,” and hung up the phone. And they boarded up the doors, put broom handles through the door where the ramp go up when they rang the bell. And she was walking around the station knocking and beating around them, and they wouldn’t say nothing. And so then, they told her to come on back to the station, and they put her in another job with the city, but it was in GRU. And she wanted to be on shift where she could work on shift where her boyfriend was, and they could be together; took two days off, you know? So, that didn’t happen. Okay. So then, when he did it like that, what Don King did, he give Freeman Robinson the credit for being the first Black to retire not once but twice. Now, I was at one. But the first one’s when he did it. My pastor was at this event. And once again, the firefighters don’t know what the big boys doing, because they told us—don’t communicate. I didn’t know nothing about this big thing, and it was Gainesville’s first Blacks. And they didn’t tell me about it. So when they give it to Freeman Robinson, my pastor stood up and say, “No, no, no! I beg your pardon: Marion Coleman was the first Black firefighter.” And everybody in the building went to clapping and said, “You goddamn right, man! The Smoke Dog was the man!” And Don King wave at my pastor: “Man, you sit down.” Just like that. So they give it to Freeman Robinson twice. But the





last time saw Freeman, he say, “Yeah, you was the first one to get out from down there, so and so and so.” I say, “Yeah, man, I just let it slide.” But he claimed it twice, and they know he wasn’t. I retired seven months before he did. And I been retired twenty-six years, sitting right here, man. Yeah, twenty-six years sitting right here. But I had good days and bad days down there. As a whole, when I retired I come and went to volunteer with Salvation Army. I did a good job down there helping the homeless, you know, giving out the bread. I was working the bread run. We did three days a week out there giving out the bread, me and a friend of mine. And then Gainesville Harvest recruited us. And I did two and a half years with Gainesville Harvest, and I volunteered for twelve years doing the commodity program with Community Action. And I started off volunteering, and ended up running the whole program. And every other month, I could sign for anywhere from twenty-seven to thirty-four thousand dollars’ worth of groceries, my signature. And I had five trucks, Penske trucks. We would load those five trucks out of what we had on the big truck. And I had five routes. And I could feed 2026 families in five days, and have all of them signature. And I did that for twelve years. So at that point, I come in contact with a lot of people. You see? I’m giving out groceries: Hawthorne, Island Grove, Micanopy, High Springs; every little township in Alachua County, I was there. Man, let me tell you: a guy said I drew a gun on him, and I didn’t. He went to make waves for me; I’m a big CBer.

	T:	A what?



	C:	A big CBer; a radio amateur operator. T:	Oh, okay.





	C:	Yeah. And I’m top dog in Alachua County—Black and White. Yeah. LCC say you can have five watt. I can key in on 5,500—[snaps]—just like that. So I talk over everybody. I don’t have to wait, I just talk over them when I get ready. But anyway, this guy had me put in jail for one night, and then laughed at the judge: “Yeah, I just wanted the motherfucker to spend a night in jail.” But here was the way this shit went down: they say my attorney, he knew who I was. The guy who was going to represent me from Three Rivers. He say, “Your Honor, we want trial by jury.” And he said, “Trial by jury?” He say, “Yeah.” And he say, “Okay.” The room was full of people. He say, “I want to ask y’all some questions. Now, everybody please tell the truth. Because we don’t want no have mistrial or nothing. How many of y’all know this man personally?” And man, one third of them held up they hand. [Laughter] He say, “Y’all excused.” He went down and he say, “How many of you people did this man come and put your house out on fire, or your daughter, or your grandma, or so and so and so?” Another seven or eight, they held up they hand. He say, “Y’all excused.” And so then they say, “How many people had Mr. Coleman come to give you anything to eat or whatever, helping you with your family matters?” And man, everybody went to standing up. And the judge looked around, and he say, “You mean to tell me we can’t enough people in Alachua County to convict Marion Coleman?” They say, “Not of a damn thing!” [Laughter] And he cleared the courtroom, because I had so much contact with these people, and they knew me. They recognized me and they respected me. Man, and them people went there, they was laughing going out the courtroom! They say, “It ain’t going be enough people to do nothing to Mr.





Coleman.” Man. And so then, they got about, “Yeah, I just wanted him to spend a night in jail,” and you know, it was a big thing for him, but man he cost the city some money, and all them people. But I tell you what: all of my friends, and I follow them, they stood up for me that day. When the guy said, “Just tell the truth, now.” Man, [inaudible 38:11]? That was. That’s all right. Hey, I did that, and when the Bush family was in running things the second term, we was getting our food from the USDA in Lakeland. And when the Bush family got up in there for the second term, he say we couldn’t buy food no longer from there. We had to buy it from this guy in Jacksonville—which was his friend, and his groceries was twice as high. You know? And so then, that’s what the commodity program at that time fell through. That was when Michelle Obama was coming to Gainesville to speak at the Hippodrome. I had a reservation set for a thirteen minute interview with her, to see could I get the commodity program back in Alachua County. Obama had got elected. Do you know a Republican on the door knew—I mean, a Black Republican, knew that I was a Democrat and wanted to speak to Michelle, and do you know that lady wouldn’t let me go in to speak to Michelle? She turned me around, I swear to God she did. And she was a Black Republican, now. She said, “Oh Coleman, I can’t do it, man. You got to have your card!” I said, “Mable, I’m thirteen on the list. Look at your list.” “I see your name, but you got to have your card. You got to have your card.” I said, “They didn’t give me no card. They just told me to come.” But anyway, I worked with that program and it was good. I mean, I got a lot of people. I still do. Anywhere I go right now, it be more people speaking to me in anything that—my girlfriend, she say, “You know what?” I say,





“What?” She say, “Anytime we leave the house, this your city. People be speaking to you from old, new, young. Everybody know Mr. Coleman. This is truly your city.” But I would say everything I did, I did well. I’ll show you—come on.

	T:	I wanted to see if we could talk a little bit about your early years in Gainesville: what the neighborhood was like; what you remember maybe about the university being a part of Gainesville; and whatever you recall from those days.

	C:	Well I recall quite a bit, man. I’m’a show you something else. T:	Show it to me.

	C:	Hold up. High school, back in the days, in the lunchrooms, they had milk. And the University of Florida had that dairy, and the schools were buying milk from the University of Florida, from the dairy students and whatnot. And this is one of the jars.

	T:	Wow!



	C:	Now—



	T:	That’s a real collector’s item there.



	C:	I know you don’t know: this is a picture of the intersection of North-South Drive and Archer Road.

	T:	What’s the first one? North—? C:	Huh?

	T:	North, South—? C:	North-South Drive. T:	Okay.





	C:	Right past Shands. T:	Okay.

	C:	And the fire station would be right here.



	T:	Oh yeah! I think that’s just above the dairy.



	C:	And there’s two great big buildings there now. T:	Yeah.

	C:	But this was the barn for the University of Florida, where they kept the cows. And there was a windmill right there. And then, the fire station, now Fire Station Number Two sits right here. And those things was on there. And that was—

	T:	Perfectly Pasteurized Dairy Products. Ice cream , Buttermilk, Chocolate milk. Our phone: 1134. [Laughter] Four digits.

	C:	And the thing of it is, when we would go with my dad to work on the mail truck at the train? The train come down the middle of Main Street back then, and right where the new secretary, the voters building now.

	T:	Oh yeah.



	C:	Well, that’s where the doughnut shop was. And there was a hole around the side of the building, and all of us would stick our milk jar in that hole. And then we would go to the movie that Saturday morning, on our way to the movie, we’d reach in the hole and get our jug, and go inside and get a milk and a nickel worth of day old doughnuts, and sit there and eat doughnuts and whatnot. And we kept these bottles in the little hole so we didn’t have to pay a deposit. And wouldn’t nobody mess with the bottle, because they didn’t know what we—you know. But it was like four or five of us in there. And I had this bottle here looked up in the





archives of the University of Florida, and they say this was worth $4400. Yep, that one jug right there. Because it’s not a chip in or nothing.

	T:	Oh, not too many of them left! C:	Exactly.

	T:	Might be one of the only ones, I would think.



	C:	No joke! And a guy named Joe Molina did that. But yeah man, we would go and get these little things here. And man, it would be that much cream on top of it.

Add a little piece of paper right there, you pull it out, and then you have to shake it five minutes to get the cream to settle. Man. Because if it didn’t, boy, you suck the cream off first? Man, you couldn’t make it to the bathroom quick enough! [Laughter] But yeah, when they had built this house in [19]47, that was a perfect straight, smooth sidewalk. And everybody come up on the Eastside, that was the longest sidewalk in Gainesville. That was a dirt street out there. And everybody would come here and skate on the sidewalk. If they got skates for Christmas?

	T:	Yeah.



	C:	And man, I done seen eight, nine kids skating up and down the sidewalk. We were so good, we wouldn’t clip each other. A line could come this way, and a line going that way.

	T:	Wow, because it’s only about, what? Two, three feet wide? Something like that. C:	And we was so good, we wouldn’t even clip each other. We could skate, yeah.

And we would walk from here across Waldo Road, and get to the White section where they had sidewalks. And every Christmas, we’d skate the whole way





across town to what’s now Santa Fe Community College. And then it was a train station. They built a Atlantic Coastline train station.

	T:	All the way to Santa Fe? C:	Yeah.

	T;	College?



	C:	No, no, no, no, no. The one on 6th Street.



	T:	Oh! Is that the Thelma Bolton? Yeah, I know the one you’re talking about. C:	Thelma Bolton is behind Kirby Smith.

	T:	Okay, Okay.



	C:	It’s in the bottom of the hill down there. Old Santa Fe on 6th Street, near 5th Avenue.

	T:	Okay, yeah.



	C:	Yeah, that was a train station back then. T:	I see. Near the police station, kind of.

	C:	Yeah, south of the police station. T:	Okay.

	C:	Right. At that time, Mr. William Turner was the station master, and it was a bunch of Black guys working that would handle the freight. It was my daddy, Willie Coleman, Morris Greene, Don Dickerson, Jack Williams; they were the porters there. And Mr. Turner was the station master. And I got my daddy’s railroad watch, and he had a Elgin, and it has twenty-one jewels in it. And I still have it, and it’s in perfect operation. And everything that does this got a jewel on top of it and the bottom, because stone against metal don’t wear out.





	T:	What a keepsake. C:	Huh?

	T:	What a keepsake! C:	Right, yeah.

	T:	To have that!



	C:	No joke, yeah. And man, I mean, you can feel it’s just a heavy as 1,2,3. And it’s hell of a watch. You can screw the back off and look at it with a flashlight, and you can see the little maroon crystals in there—the rubies? It’s loaded, man. Got twenty-one of them in there. And they would have keep good time, but we would go to over there and do that. And Daddy learned us the railroad signals, and the way the horn, or how to reassign on the railroad tracks. The way the conductor was supposed to blow his horn. Yeah. And it was in 1956, I was in tenth grade, and a man name Mr. Dan Dickerson, he was the engineer on the little freight engine. And the had a 1956 four-door, hardtop Cadillac in the showroom of Brasington Cadillac. And right now, that’s where the Hooters and all that, right down from the Hippodrome? It was right on the next block over, which where the probation office is. That was a Cadillac place. And what made the man buy the car, he was looking at it, and he say, “How much this car cost?” And they told him what it was. He say, “Okay.” He say, “I tell you what, man: that car got a telephone in it.” He say, “You got to be kidding.” He say, “No.” He say, “What?” He said, “Nah, man.” He say, “What’s your phone number?” And he told him. And he reached over in the car and turned a switch on, and called that phone number and hand him the phone, and his wife answered the phone. And he say, “Hey





baby, you hear me?” And she say, “Yeah, I hear you. Where you at?” He say, “I’m down here looking at a car got a telephone in it.” She say, “Well bring it home, because I want it.” He said, “Okay, I’ll be there in a minute. How much you say it was?” And reached in his pants, and paid cash money for that car. [Laughter]

	T:	What? That’s the engineer of the—?



	C:	Yeah he was the engineer, the guy who drove the train. And the train at that time run straight right up the middle of Main Street. And then they built the new track around Gainesville, on the outside of Gainesville, which is 6th Street. And I mean, look how the city done gobbled up—you know what I’m saying? From Main Street to 6th Street. They done went out in the country to build around town, and now it’s still inside! [Laughter] That’s the truth, man. I remember that. But this one right here was Court Street, and it was 1638 NE Court Street. And the names and—was all names back then, it wasn’t no numbers. And Daddy worked at Firestone. And he worked at Firestone, when he left Firestone that’s when he went to the Atlantic Coastline. But as a child, me and Henry Lyons, the pastor that was in St. Pete, had a bunch of money misplaced.

	T:	I remember that, in the late [19]90s or so.



	C:	Yeah, well he lived in the third house right down there. Me, Henry Lyons— T:	Yeah. [Laughter] Embezzlement was the charge, I remember!

	C:	Yeah—oh, he back in it for the same thing right now. T:	Oh no!





	C:	Yeah he is, for real. And Earl Watts and Bill Jones, we were the four musketeers in this area. And Earl is dead, and Henry done did time twice in the joint for embezzlement. And me and Bill, we just sitting back there cool, you know, one, two, three.

	T:	Is he still here?



	C:	Yeah, Bill? Him and Albert White owns a little breakfast house across from where Mom’s Kitchen used to be.

	T:	Ah. Like in the Pleasant Street kind of area?



	C:	No, no, no. 5th Avenue, right near Wilhelmina Johnson Resource Center. Right on the corner, right before that stop sign there.

	T:	Okay.



	C:	Yeah. And that’s Bill Jones. There was a Mac’s Drive-in was where Autozone is now. And that was one of the big, big places where the White people went. A drive-in. And a guy named Leroy Holly worked in the kitchen. And I went down there and had him to make me a coconut cream pie. And man, that was the best coconut cream pie ever. But this was dirt streets, and C. L Franklin Park right here? The man put a—day by day, he put junk and trash across a pond. And eventually they paved a street in it to get his family from—he had to go like three blocks back that way, then two blocks this way, and then to come all the way back this way. So he just, on his own, did his little thing, then they named the park after him. He made a road across a pond, and they did that. His name was

C.L. Franklin. But Daddy built this house here, I was seven years old and my brother nine, and there was a six-foot ditch between here and the road.





	T:	Wow.



	C:	So, the truck what brought the blocks, it got that big arm on it? It just reach across the ditch and put the blocks down way out there. And me and my brother had to tote the blocks from out there all the way around this house, man!

	T:	Got you ready for firefighter duty.



	C:	Yeah, no joke! The only thing Daddy was doing was laying the mud, and putting the block on there. We had to run; “Hurry up! Hurry up! Don’t keep me waiting!” Man, look here: it was a lady, Ms. Priscilla Bentley. Her and her family were passing one day, and she say, “You working them children too hard!” And my daddy looked up and say, “They need a place to stay, too.” And I’m glad I did, because I’m still here, you know? My dad died at the age of ninety-two, in [19]92.

	T:	Wow. Okay.



	C:	Yeah. And Mom, she passed when she was like seventy-one. Yeah. T:	And what did your mom do?

	C:	She was a cook at Lincoln High School, and her sister was the manager. And my wife was the vegetable cook and eventually the baker at GHS. My wife started working for the schoolboard before we even got married. And she worked for the Alachua County School Board thirty-one years and four months. And she started out as a vegetable cook, and I taught her how to bake. The recipes that they had—I was living in that little house right here, right in front of my daddy: the house over here, and the house over there. And my dad was renting them. And I was staying in the house over there, renting from my dad. And when Marion was born, and one day my auntie call me. She say, “Marion.” I say, “Yes.” She say,





“The baker didn’t come to work today. Can you come over here and make some peanut butter cookies? That’s what’s on the menu for today.” I say, “Sure.” And I told Momma take everything out, and I was going double it. And I went over there, and I got there, and when they saw me coming in, Marion was in a little tray about this long. Man, I jumped up and put those cookies together, and when the lunch line started, every student that come at Lincoln High School who come through got two peanut butter cookies decorated. I took two spatulas and a bowl of powdered sugar, and I do it like this. And I hit one, two. And like hot cross buns? Decorated every one of them. Man, from that day, they said, “If you teach Odelle how to bake, she’ll be the baker.” And so I went to teaching her. I would look at the menu and show her, tell her how to do it. And when they closed down Lincoln, they carried her to GHS. She was head baker over there, now—matter of fact, she was the head cook. And the football team, they called her “Momma ‘Delle,” and when she had some female operation and she had took some time off, and she was supposed to go back that Monday, but she went that Wednesday before. And the Dean was in the lunchroom. He was looking at the— the Dean of Girls come and sit near them so they could eat, so the kids won’t be throwing food on them. And one guy, Mr. Hayward, looked down, he say, “Look at that plate.” She say, “What?” They say, “Mrs. Coleman back.” And so they went and looked in the kitchen, and saw my wife back. They say, “We so glad you back. These childrens out here having fights with the food.” She say, “Well, they won’t do it today.” They said, “No.” The football team come in and looked and saw my wife? They say, “Momma ‘Delle, that food was so nasty. A maggot





wouldn’t eat it!” She say, “Don’t you say that! Don’t you say that! You hurting these ladies feelings!” They say, “Unh-uh, we glad you back.” And I’m’a tell you how good a cook she was: Thanksgiving Day, 1985, on duty at Station 5, I saw two Ku Klux fighting over my wife’ biscuits at the dinner table at the fire station. [Laughter] And the lieutenant wasn’t a Klansman. He said, “I’ll be damned! Two Klan were fighting over a Black woman’ biscuit!” [Laughter] It was something. But it was nice. When Marion was a baby, I was working at Magnolia Lake. ASnd all of the kids would come down there, and I would teach them Morse Code, and teaching the boy scouts and stuff. And I made Eagle Scout in 1958, and I went to Camp Kabeyun, which is in—no, no, no. I went to Camp Ichiwa; Camp Kabeyun is in New Hampshire. But that’s where the boy’s camp at when I first got to New York. I worked the summer, and then I went back to New York, then I went to baking school. But in [19]58, I was here in high school. I went to camp Ichiwa, which is on the north end of Lake Okeechobee. And I lived two summers with the Seminoles. Sure did. And I remember a couple of words in Seminole. For instance, “Greetings, how are you?” is “Tehonosa.” That’s what it means; greetings, how are you. And you would say—like you very strong, and a superhuman body, it’s something like “ishtnook.” They say, “ishtnook,” that means you got a hell of a build and stuff like that. Because I was pretty built back then. It was a couple of words I picked up down there.

	T:	How were they living back then? Were they living—because now, you think with the casinos and everything.





	C:	Well I’m’a say it like this: yeah, up until 1977 was when the Seminole Nation got paid for the land sale from the state of Florida. In 1977, that’s when they went big and got the casinos and everything. I was supposed to have some children down there, and grandchildren by now. And my great-grands by now. I was supposed to have had a daughter down there. The last time I saw her, she was like twelve years old. And she asked me and my girlfriend to bring her some store-bought tampons, because the government was giving them back then stuff that, like, recycled paper, and then that stuff gets slick, man, and they just not absorb it one bit.

	T:	And you mean she was like a goddaughter to you, or—?



	C:	No, it was supposed to be my daughter. Yeah, I was down messing around with—see, it’s run by a tribe of Indians, and I messed around there and got hold one of the chicks down there, and she say she had a baby of ours.

	T:	Oh, I see.



	C:	Yeah. So I went down there when she was like three. I went back ten years later and you could tell she was a mixed child. With the way the things were back then, I think it was just best for me to walk away and say, “The hell with it,” you know? See, she was accepted and everything by the tribe down there and everything, but man, it was something. She was quite a girl.

	T:	And the tribe at that point, they were living in pretty deep poverty?



	C:	Oh yeah! Man, by all means. They had—I’m’a tell you what they did: here’s what, back then, the Indians had to do. They would take them, like, a hundred pounds jade, and two hundred pounds of silver, and a hundred pounds of leather, and





then they’ll say make me beads, trinkets, and necklaces and stuff. And they would only allow them two percent waste on each product. And so then, what they would do, they would go and make all this jewelry, then they would come and get it and go sell it, and then give them blankets and oatmeal and, you know.

	T:	What, the federal government? C:	Yeah.

	T:	And all that.



	C:	And when she was thirteen, she asked for a six-slot toaster. One building had electricity in it, out of the whole reservation, and that was the mess hall where they ate at. And it had one plug where you could put in a toaster. And they would take turns plugging in their toaster to toast their Thomas English muffins. And her name was Nessa. And she would say, “Poppa, you bring me a six-slice toaster? Then I could let them toast they muffins in my toaster. And I’ll tell them they got to make me a bracelet for that day.” So she was like Tom Sawyer. [Laughter] “If you make me a bracelet, you can toast your English muffins. And that’s what she was doing. Really. So I say, “You going get throwed up out of there.” But a unique thing about the campus down there, the reservation—they call it a campus—when you get to the gate, you tell the man who you going to see, and then this little boy sitting over there looking at you, grinning, and the minute you pick up he’ll reach over there and pick up two rocks. [Starts tapping] And you got to go from here down there to, not quite to the Bo Diddley Plaza, but when you get there, the family that you going to see, they standing out there waiting on you. And they didn’t even have no telephones, no nothing, but them little rocks





that they got all the way down the trail; like the Pony Express, man! Yeah. But it was something. It was nice, but I really enjoyed it. The things you have to do that while you down there. Like, they want you to be a brave. You got to do all these things. You got to run so far. Run with a cup of water in your mouth, and spit it out when you get to where you going. And all kind of stuff like that there. Prove yourself to be worthy to be a brave, you know? And I was into them, man. I think I wasn’t down there but two summers.

	T:	I’ve heard some of the history where they talk about, back in the days of slavery, slaves would escape with the Seminoles. Did you hear much about that?

	C:	Yeah, man. My great-great granddaddy was raised by a group of Seminoles.



Well, right there in Rochelle, Grove Park.



	T:	Where is Grove Park?



	C:	It’s between here and Hawthorne. You got Gainesville, Rochelle, Grove Park, Hawthorne.

	T:	So it’s in Alachua?



	C:	Yeah. Well, originally Gainesville was on the other side of Newnan’s Lake. It was called Hoggetown. Okay? And a little place called Windsor. That’s what’s there now. Okay, when the Civil War was coming this way, General Gaines got ambushed by a tribe of Negroes and Indians. And they killed him right out there. And to this day, they will not let a monument be there, remain there. Right down the street from it is one of the Ku Klux Klan stronghold. The, what’s their name? It’s a big family of them, and they was Ku Klux all they life, and they still display big Rebel flags. But everything so far that the county have put there, they found a





way to remove it. Man, they had a concrete barrier this wide, about big as that refrigerator and that thick, with a big plate on the front of it? Man, one Sunday morning, about 6:45? We heard this goddamn explosion. I went out there, a goddamn hole in the ground that you could step down in knee deep. There was nothing left for that damn monument. I mean, it was gone. I could go show you where the spot is, and it’s a little area there that is dedicated for a battleground where the slaves and Indians did it. But my granddaddy, my great-great granddaddy, I got a clipping that he was running with Nat Turner and the gang?

	T:	Up in Virginia?



	C:	And Jefferson Davis was the President. And they was running down 301 to get to Seminole Nation, which was at that time was in Ocala, in the Ocala National Forest. And they abandoned him; he was a child, and they left him in Hawthorne. When he woke up, he heard the dogs coming, and he took off and he messed up trying to run that way. He ran east, and run from Hawthorne to Grove Park. And he was so tired he just lay down and rest up on that tree. And when he woke up, a little Indian boy was standing there looking at him. And so then he said, “Hey!” He was trying to communicate. So my granddaddy started breaking stuff to make him a lean-to, and the little boy went to helping him. So the little boy left, and when he come back, he had a great big old fish and a bigger guy. And Granddaddy say they sit there and clean the fish and everything. The guy made a fire and they roasted the fish. He said when he woke up the next morning, he say the people come to him and told him to come to the courthouse and register the land. And he stepped off 4.8 acres of land, and marked all four corners. And





we still got that land and this house to the family to this day. Yeah. And the Indians helped him raise up out there, and he was had a moonshine still. My granddaddy was a moonshine maker, and he made moonshine. A plane must have broke the sonic barrier in Hawthorne, and a lady got cut on her arm. And they went to Dr. Shell house for him to sew up the lady’ arm up. And he was drunk. And they looked down there and saw my great-granddaddy’s jug. And they say, “We going go out there and kill that nigger. He made this rotgut liquor that he couldn’t save this white woman.” So they come to get him, and my granddaddy shot four of them that night.

	T:	Wow.



	C:	Yeah. They didn’t— T:	It’s like a lynch mob.

	C:	Yeah. But he got the word they were coming, and he was ready for them, and he shot four of them.

	T:	Wow. Shot them dead?



	C:	Yeah. And they said in the newspaper— T:	Do you know about what time this was?

	C:	Uh, hell. Shit, man. Let me see, a sonic boom was like [19]47, [19]48 when jet planes, the Sabre jet, you know, was about that era, about that time. Yeah. And he shot four of them, and then the newspaper said that they just died of natural causes, but they didn’t come for it [inaudible 1:07:47]. They damn sure didn’t.

	T:	Wow. They said that the four guys died of natural causes? C:	Yeah. Yeah.





	T:	Wow! On his property, with a gun with it.



	C:	Yeah, and they didn’t. Unh-uh. But Granddaddy, he was out there for a while, and he was raised by the Indians. And he cut new teeth at the age of 102. Give another interview when he was 105, and he died when he was 108. And he said when he was 102, he was cutting teeth top and bottom. Eddie Davis was the photographer for the Gainesville Sun, and he head out there took a picture, and people drove from Gainesville to Grove Park to look and see the baby teeth. And man, people tipped him, give him ten, twenty dollars just to take a picture of it and everything. And he cut baby teeth at the age of 102, and when he died he was 108.

	T:	He was 108. What year, about ,was that? C:	1958.

	T:	So you would have been in high school when he was—so you remember him well?

	C:	I remember him quite well, yeah. I got me a—[Interruption for side conversation at 1:09:04]. Cut that off, I’m going show you.

	T:	Oh, okay. [Break in recording]

	C:	When we went to Lincoln—this was in 1956—I was in tenth grade, and Rayfield McGhee was our physical science instructor. And he told us this one saying. And I always try to tell every somebody once a week, and I tell them to pass it on. He told us, he say, “The man who knows how has a job, but the man who know why is the boss.” [Laughter] And I mean, that make sense, don’t it? And he told us





that in 1956, and when we had our 55th year class reunion, I stopped the class and I stay, “Y’all, let’s give a toast!” And they didn’t [inaudible 1:10:13]. So, when he told us that, I stopped the class reunion at our 55th year out of high school, and I say, “I want to give a toast to Rayfield McGhee.” I say—we had pineapple juice in the glasses—I say, “A toast. Who remember these words? The man who know how has a job and the man who knows why is the boss. Rayfield McGhee. Salud!” And everybody looked up and said, “Coleman, you still remember that?” I said, “Yeah, I still remember that.” But it’s true, I mean, you know. And I passed that along to a lot of the people. But Lincoln High School had a hell of a history throughout, you know. There’s a book, The Legacy of Lincoln High, and A. Quinn Jones was the man. And they got his house over there, historical place and all that. But Lincoln was, I would say, a stepping stone to A&M and Bethune- Cookman back then. A lot of the kids, if they didn’t go into the Service they went to A&M or either Bethune-Cookman. And it was a lot of families sent their kids to school back then that you didn’t think they could do it, but back then, the first year you had to pay yourself, and then after that you could get a scholarship. And so, the family would just sacrifice that first year. But people like Jessie Heard, John Dukes, Rayfield McGhee, Thomas Coward, they made Lincoln High School a living Legend history with education, you know. Everywhere where we went, man, Lincoln’s the chorus, the band, the track team. Football team was all right.

We produced three of the good professional players: Frank Marion, Oliver Ross, and Ronnie Fox. All three of those went through Lincoln High School, and then went to NFL teams. And Jessie Heard, he did many good things when he come





to Lincoln. He really did. T.B McPherson he was the coach and athletic director for years and years, and he did a good job. And when they had T.B McPherson Park, I was on duty that night. I had to go to a city commission meeting to make sure that the place don’t get overcrowded. And they made the proposal to put a pool at T.B McPherson. So I was in that when they approved it and everything. So the next day I got off, I called Judge Mickle, and his daddy Andrew Mickle was the swimming coach. And so I say, “Would you feel bad if I offer a motion to put Andrew Mickle’ name on the pool?” He said, “No, Coleman. I’d be honored if you did.” I said, “Okay.” So, I told the right people in the Northeast Coalition to do this. They met with the city commission about three days later, and they want to know, “How you know about all of this, and why you—?” “Because it’s true. And we want that pool named after Andrew Mickle.” And they did. Andrew Mickle was the one that taught me lifeguard. I was a junior Lifeguard when they opened the pool. And then I went, made state-registered lifeguard. That’s when they sent me to Magnolia Lake, and I was lifeguard out there for thirteen years—just during the summer. But Lincoln had Jerry Miller; he didn’t let Lincoln students, the band, play no rock and roll. It was classical music, and up-to-date modern music. And he wouldn’t let them juke none whatsoever. The liveliest song they played was “Prairie Jump,” which is the theme song for Red Rider, on TV, with the little beagle, and the Alka-Seltzer song, the Alka-Seltzer commercial. And those was the two liveliest tunes that Lincoln ever played with. John Phillips Souza, Bob Hayden, Handle. Them kids could just sit there, man, and just serenade you.

Yeah. He had a hell of a band. And Geraldine Youngblood Fields Miller, I was in





the chorus with her. And she did her thing. We stayed—the whole while we were in school, we were number one in the state-local senior chorus festivals; Lincoln High, Gainesville. I mean, Geraldine had us on point. We did a musical, Oklahoma, and I was the leading character. I was the one that sang all the songs and stuff. I was dressed up like a hillbilly, everything. But Lincoln as a whole, it was statewide, man. I could be talking with somebody in a bar somewhere, “You ever heard about the Big Red?” This conversation will get [inaudible 01:15:39].

Because man, when you say something about the Big Red, oh god, man! We were doing so good with sports and everything else. Man, all the other schools, they just hated us. That’s our—that tag right there, the Big Red? Man, everybody be proud to put one of them on the front of their car, man. I ain’t joking. Yes sir, buddy. I won the state mile meet in Tallahassee in 1958. I was in eleventh grade. And the year before in [19]57, when Dr. Banks was dating LaKay Banks—well, Lakay Beasley then. She was Miss FAMU. In [19]59, Dr. Banks married her, and I was the chauffeur. And he would go up there when he was courting her, and I would get his car and go up on campus. Well, my brother was going to school up there. And one Saturday morning, we got there that Saturday morning for the day, and I went on to Roberts to go to breakfast with him, and he say, “Nah, I want you to do something else.” So we went out on the track field, and we saw this guy running. He say, “Get ready to run, because he ain’t gone stop.” I said, “Okay.” So when the guy come up, we took off running along with him. He said, “Benny I want you to meet my baby brother, man. He’s a miler for Lincoln. I want you to slow down for a couple of laps and explain to him rhythmic breathing. I‘d





appreciate it.” He say, “Okay.” So Robert stopped and went back. He say, “Okay, young man, I’m’a slow down, now.” I said “Okay.” And he taught me two steps in and two steps out with breathing, rhythmic breathing. Yeah, two and two. And I developed that. And that was in [19]57. In [19]58, I won the state mile. State record. And it was five—

	T:	Was it non-segregated at that point? C:	HUH?

	T:	Like, the track meet, was it all the runners from the state, or did they have a Black division and then a White?

	C:	No, no, no. This was the Black. This was the Black division, held at A&M campus. It was still segregated back then, yeah. And my time was five minutes and forty-three seconds, something like that. 5:43. And man, when I saw David Weiller do the mile in less than four minutes, I say, “Boy, this guy here running!” And I remember Frank Charlotte, he was running here at Florida. Me and my dad would be going fishing six o’clock in the morning, and we would pass through Rochelle Creek trying to get to the Dell Highway to go to Cross Creek, and go to Lochloosa? Man, you would see something in the road glowing, and it’d be a blue coat with orange dayglow letters, said “The Frank Charlotte.” This guy twelve miles out of Gainesville, five o’clock in the morning, man! [Inaudible 1:18:47] Man, I go back, I say, “Coach, I saw Frank Charlotte. Saturday morning, man, five o’clock. He was about twelve miles out of Gainesville.” He say, “Well, Coleman that’s what it going take, now. You got to do just like he do. That’s your idol. You got to do this, man.” I say, “Yeah, I hear you.” But Lincoln was good.





We did a good thing. James Moss, he was the shot-putter. He broke the record, and Lucien Hill broke the high jump record. All in 1958, class of 1959: shot-put, high jump, and mile. Well Coach McPherson, “Boy, y’all got up there and showed out!” But we did good. We did good.

	T:	How did you feel—so, you would have graduated about ten years or so before it closed?

	C:	No, it was—yeah, something like that.



	T:	How did you feel when you saw it was closing?



	C:	Well, I felt bitter. Naturally, you know, you don’t want to see your home school, your alma mater, just get phased out like that. But it was something that couldn’t be helped. Gainesville with the integration situation, it went over rather less slowly. It wasn’t no whole lot of stuff like that. The people at Lincoln, the teachers and everybody done told us, “Hey, y’all stay out all that mess, the pickets and the protesting”; they say, “Let the adults do that.” And we just kind of sit back and everything. But Charles Chestnut and several other, Weston Bradley and his brother, and George Pinkney the senior, they did the thing down there at Albert Tower’s house where the rose garden is now, in front of the library. There was a big restaurant there, and they went in and sit down. And what they did, they loaded the food up with hot sauce. And they couldn’t eat it. And they said, “Just eat one bean at a time. We got all the tables tied up. They can’t make no money.” And so, that’s what they, just slowed down, went to eating one bean at a time. And a lady named Ms. Betty Brown, she say, “All these people want to do is come in here and eat. Let’s serve these people so they can go home and do





what they going do.” And man, they’ll come out there and pick up your plate, and go back in that kitchen, bring you another plate of that same thing you ordered. And we sit there, and we ate, and it did what it was supposed to do. We just got up and left after that. All we wanted to do was eat. And one lady, she told Mr.

Albert, she say she picked up a lot of tables, and when she got almost to the kitchen, she dropped it like that, and broke all the plates. She said, “Won’t nobody else eat out them damn plates.” And the boss man said, “You going pay for every damn one of them.” Yeah, right then.

	T:	Wow, so it’s a White waitress and a White boss? C:	In a White restaurant.

	T:	In a White restaurant. But the boss told her to—?



	C:	Yeah, you going pay for every one of them. That was his shit. I mean, we didn’t destroy nothing. When they wash it, if they going wash it clean, I mean, my god, ain’t going leave no slobber on plate, know what I mean? So he say, “You going pay for every one of them.” But the integration time was over, then. But yeah.

When the Blacks, they had jobs, and there was Porter’s Quarters, was a place called Dell Quarters, and they worked at the crate mill. Back then, it was dirt streets and all this, but those people, they wasn’t making much money. But they could survive on what they made because prices were cheap. Like I showed you in that paper a while ago? Things was were rather less cheap back then. So, it was a thing that Gainesville went through. It wasn’t no whole lot of bloodshed or nothing like that here in Gainesville. It was rather good and easy, good and quiet. I boycotted the place that I was working at when I was in eleventh grade. What’s





now Hungry Howie’s, that was a hamburger stand called Bigger Burger. I was working there, and I got up to chapel that day—they had a sign say, “Colored” and “White.” And I got up that morning in chapel at school, and I say, “Hey, look: they got their signs up there. Y’all stand across the street. When the man come up there and tear the sign down, then y’all come and buy your hamburgers.” So they say, “Okay.” So man, I was there, looking on, got the grill ready, good and hot. They was standing up across the street waiting and looking. He say, “What they waiting on, man?” I say, “Oh, that’s right, I forgot. They say that you got a ‘Colored’ sign and a ‘White’ sign out there.” He say, “That what they waiting on?” I say, “Yeah.” Man he went out there, he reached up and grabbed that Colored sign and that White sign, and took them and throwed them in the middle of University Avenue. They come across that street like ants, what come to get them hamburgers? And that was the end of the segregation for Bigger Burger.

	T:	Who took it down?



	C:	The owner, Tommy Tant. Yeah. Tommy Tant, yeah. From the burger joint, it went to a barbecue place. From the barbecue place to a crab house. Then it went to a ice cream place, now Hungry Howie’s, and it’d been a whole lot of stuff going on there. But that was one of the big places in Gainesville that everybody—What-a-Burger across town was on 13th Street. They had the big five-inch hamburger, and Tommy Tant did, too. And they wasn’t but thirty-five cent, because I was the grill cook. I was the one cooking hamburgers. And when I told them to not come across that street to buy a hamburger until they take them signs down, they did just that. They did not move. Now, he went out there





and snatched them signs down? Man, they come across that street, and I say, “Okay, here we go; we right now.” I was in the Rocketeers’ Club at Lincoln; it was like twelve or thirteen of us, and we had read books about building rockets that took off. Right then, you know, everybody, “Rocket, rocket, rocket!” So we had the Rocketeers club. We was reading different books about rockets and the fuel. There’s no one book give you a complete formula for rocket fuel, so us reading many books, all us come up with this, this, this, and this, and we going put them together. Henry Rice, the first guy got burned, was stirring the stuff up and it— whaaao! Man, just ate him up, boy; spots all over the place. So then, we went and put the little glass, and they were doing it. So anyway, we got a little recipe up, and Oliver Norton, and myself, and the rest of them—the chemistry teacher had an accident, had cut his foot. Rayfield McGhee, he had cut his foot backing up with a lawnmower, and tripped and fell and pulled the lawnmower up on top his foot. Damn near cut his toe off. Well, he was out with a cut toe. So while he gone, we going go in the lab play rocketeers. [Laughter] We went in there, man, we were making up this concoction; Oliver had made a great big old long rocket about this long. Beautiful. Had a twenty-penny nail in the front of it. Man we went there and made up this concoction, and we put some in there, and he didn’t pack it. And then he put some more in, and he packed it. And so then we hung it up in the hood. Put some on a glass rod, and sit back, and—tsst! And it went fssssshhh, right in front. Beautiful. So then we going do it again. Man, he put in there, he packed it the first time. And then when he put the rest of it in there, he packed that. We went back and hung that thing up, and man, he put some on a





glass rod, and went there, and set that thing, say, ssshhh-kwwwschh! Went through the roof! [Laughter]

	T:	[Laughter] Inside, huh?



	C:	Inside the little gas hood. You know, where it suck the— T:	Oh yeah.

	C:	Man look a-here; that sucker went through that damn thing and went up through the roof. And the chemistry instructor, he lived about five blocks from it. He heard it at his yard. He say, “Lord, what they done did now?” [Laughter] They went to tell him. He coming down the road on two crutches. “What the hell is going on?” Man, we went out there, and we had to pay for that shit, man. And you say, “What y’all doing?” And they say, “We put some rocket fuel in, and blah, blah, blah.” He was mad at us [inaudible 1:28:12]! And that was the year that me and Oliver went to Tallahassee in the science fair, and with that concoction, we won first place at the science fair in [19]58. And he made a jet engine, and we fired it up on the stage. Yeah, we fired it up. And it moved about that far. [Laughter] Everybody got ready to make a break for the door, man! But Lincoln had a lot of good stuff, a lot of good people come out of Lincoln. They really did. For instance, does the name James Weldon Johnson mean anything to you?

	T:	Yeah, because I went to the Legacy Bearers event last year, and they sang “Lift Every Voice and Sing.”

	C:	Right.



	T:	That was a beautiful thing to witness.



	C:	Yeah, well he was a [19]38 graduate of Lincoln High School.





	T:	I didn’t know that.



	C:	Yeah, see? That’s right. James Weldon Johnson, he finished Lincoln High school, the class of 1938. I got a book in there with it in it. Yeah.

	U1:	Not to cut you off, but Mr. Mills has died. C:	Which one?

	U1:	[Inaudible 1:29:24].



	C:	Whoa, Mr. Charles Mills! U1:	Yeah.

	C:	Wow!



	U1:	Daughter [inaudible 1:29:29]. I told her to give them my condolences. C:	Yeah.

	U1:	He was a good man. A lot of us, he meant something, you know what I’m saying? Down to the recreation center? Yeah.

	C:	Well, I’m’a tell you something: this guy, what he speaking of? He was a big guy.



Tall, and he—



	U1:	He was about Shorty’s size, when he came in the restaurant. He came back two weeks ago.

	T:	His name was Charles Mills? C:	Yeah.

	T:	Okay.



	C:	He was a big dude. Real tall, and all his clothes and everything were really expensive. And so Andrew Mickle, our tailoring instructor, taught that guy how to sew to make his own clothes. And man, let me tell you something: he made suits,





vests, and everything else, but he was well-dressed. And he made his own clothes, and people were paying him to make clothes for them. But he was so big, he was making his own clothes. He went to making clothes for his wife and every damn body else.

	U1:	Charles big. C:	For real. Yeah U1:	Tall and big.

	C:	Yes sir, buddy. They’d make they own clothes together. And he was the director of the center out on 2nd Street. Yeah.

	T:	Tell me—this might be one of my last questions, but what do you think of the changes in Gainesville through the years?

	C:	I would say I’m grateful, because I’ve have seen other cities deteriorate after—for instance, Ocala. Ocala used to be a pretty good city. Now man, you got cuttings and shootings and stuff down there like you never seen. Gainesville is governed by the students out there at the university. If you don’t get in they way or mess with them, you good to go in Gainesville. But now, if you go uptown to try to do this or get in with them, or try to sell them some drugs or something, you going get trouble. But as a whole, the jobs have really picked up. People got jobs now that they really couldn’t have a long time ago. And I’m a witness of that myself.

The people now, if they working in a department, if they got good bosses and supervisors, they can go to class—even at the Shands and different places—and get a degree while you working to do this in your field. A long, long time ago, man, things like that was unheard of. But nowadays it is, because one of





classmates, Wallace Taylor, he is on the team that would go to Texas and fly back with a heart or a kidney, you know, and stuff like this? Man, I remember when he was working in the science lab just shaving the dogs for the new students to, you know—but this guy certified now, man, got a degree and all this kind of good stuff? Yeah. But the Blacks in Gainesville, they have the opportunities now to really reach out and do something with they lives. Long time ago, they didn’t have all these agencies and stuff where they could. They got a little club here called Men of the East. They had a drive on here for the last two months getting people to go to school at Santa Fe, that they would pay for them to go to be air condition and refrigeration and specialists and whatnot. I was in the group that started this thing off. And after, I would say we got about six or seven to go, but the program only had so many spaces anyway. With the things you can do now, with me being old as I am, I have seen many, many changes in Gainesville. And the Blacks can get better jobs, and they can get better opportunities nowadays than they could a long time ago.

	T:	Do people in the neighborhood—because we’re just a few blocks over across Waldo from Duck Pond, which is kind of like a neighborhood where it seems they fixed up the big houses in the recent years. Do people here have any concern about it not being affordable anymore?

	C:	Yeah, I’m one of them. I need a new roof and I need windows and stuff in this house. Now, this is heirs’ property. Me, my sister, and my brother own it. So the city don’t loan grants for heirs’ property. But I’m’a tell you what else they did: must’ve been like, twelve, fifteen years ago. They zoned from Waldo Road to 16th





Street, from University Avenue to 8th Avenue, business commercial. And we can’t build a house from Waldo in that area. You got to go before the city commission and show proof of—well you want to show cause why you want to build in this section.

	U1:	You can’t even build a addition.



	C:	Yeah, well, you can’t even add on a room or nothing. They say that if you build a building or residence, it’s got to be on top of a business. So actually, we’re paying taxes with business commercial like we making money. And we’re not.

Because I wanted to build a house out there for my daughter, a four-bedroom apartment out there. And they told me, they say, “You can’t do it.” The guy over there wanted to add a room, and he challenged them and went to city commission and everything, and the next day he got a note on his door that if he didn’t clean off his front porch, they was going fine him $100 dollars a day. Just enough to shut your mouth, you know? The man’ front porch was about this wide, and long enough for—well, he at right across the street. He couldn’t even add a room on his house. Now, a lady slipped in and say she was running a insurance company out of her house, and she slipped one in on them. So now, a guy that was supposed to be tackling it now, about two lots behind this on the next street over there straight in front of us, he want to build two small houses in there. And he say they giving him hell about rezoning them two lots so he could do that. Yeah, I mean, it’s—they want this area here to keep the White people from having to go too deep into the Black neighborhood, because Gainesville got to come this way now.





	T:	Seems like it is.



	C:	It’s got to come this way. Everything from here to Newberry chock block, man— T:	With Porter Quarters it’s kind of happening there—

	C:	Damn right! Yeah— T:	And Fifth Avenue—

	C:	All that, yeah. It’s coming this way.



	U1:	It always been like this since I was like five. I’m fifty-seven. I ain’t never seen these roads paved.

	T:	Wow.



	C:	So, Gainesville has made many changes. I’m kind glad that I’ve been here long enough to see, that I could witness. Gainesville is a good place to live.

	T:	An you think you’ll spend the rest of your years here? C:	Yeah, I ain’t got long left. [Laughter]

	T:	Well it seems like with your great grandfather going 108, and your dad going to— you might be at mid-life right now.

	C:	Man, I tell you; no joke, I wish it was.



	T:	[Laughter] All right. Well, thank you very much. Is there anything that you wanted to—?

	C:	No. The people can call me, come by, visit or whatever. If you really want to have good tour of the fire stations, come get me and I’ll go to the fire station and give you a tour. When I was down there on duty, every school with a fieldtrip, they would call first, say, “What day is Mr. Coleman working?” And they’ll tell them.

They say, “Can you schedule us a trip that day, a fieldtrip with thirty kids?” And





they’ll say “Okay.” And then, that day I’m there, and they’ll say, “Coleman, you got a tour this morning.” I say, “Okay.” Man, the school bus pull up out there, and I would take them and give them a station tour. Two things that I would always stress to them that a lot of people don’t know; I don’t even know whether you do. You know the difference between a fire truck and a fire engine? A fire truck does not carry water. A fire engine carries water. And I would explain to them about the hook and ladder truck. That’s a truck that has a bunch of ladders on it. One of the ladders got a great big hook on it. Its call a pompier ladder, and with two pompier ladders you can come on the outside, you can get all the way to the top of the Empire State Building. Leap Frogging, you know, one through the other.

Then I would take them upstairs, and I would teach them about stop, drop and roll. And then I would teach them how to—if you smell smoke, don’t sit up in the bed, but roll out the bed. Then if you got a sister or brother in the room with you, go over there and grab the sheet, and bring them with you with the sheet and all. Because now they got something to slide on. And then when you get to the door, you feel the door with the back of your hand instead of like this. You burn the whole hand. Do this, you got a little spot right there. It’s stuff like this. And the way that I would be telling them all of these things, I would captivate them. And man, they would be just sitting there listening. And the school teachers, they say, “Mr. Coleman, we don’t know how you do it. Even the worst kids in the class, they sit and listen to you like I’m giving them information that a little hungry mind is reaching to grab.” And my district chief, his bedroom was on the other side of the wall than our bedroom, and he would sit and listen at me teach those kids like





that. A couple of times, they was talking about, “We got to lay off somebody.” “How about you lay off Coleman?” He say, “Coleman ain’t going nowhere.” Chief Hardy, that man, defended me. I know—well, two other guys told me, they said they had the crosshairs on me to take me out. Chief Hardy say, “Unload your rifle. He ain’t going nowhere.” No joke.

	T:	Had your back.



	C:	Yeah, he really did. I was a super good guy up there, and I did things that other firefighters wouldn’t do or couldn’t do. When I first got there, you supposed to get—six months, you get an evaluation: either you get a permanent job, or you go back to the house. I did my six months. Guess what they come telling me? “We forgot to watch you, and you got to do it again.” And I say, “Okay.” Union president say, “Wait a minute!” I say,” Rich, Rich, wait. Whoah. Time out, y’all. Come here Rick.” I carried Rick down the hall. I say, “Rick, man, I was sweeping the floor at Williams Elementary making five hundred dollars a month. Now I’m making $712 every two weeks. They just guaranteed me another six months of this big money, so let’s not say nothing. But I’ll make damn sure they watching me this time,” you know? Anyway, it took me about four years to get back on the same step that I was supposed to get on my first six months. And it took two secretaries about four years to figure out why my pay wasn’t corresponding with everybody else’ pay, because I had to do my six months twice without a pay raise. And so when they got that thing straightened out, with the interest that I had coming to me without being paid full course; I had two paychecks that month, that two weeks period. Man, and I showed that—when I got the first one,





they say, “Coleman, you got another.” I looked back, and backed up to it and reached back and got it. I say, “I didn’t deserve this!” [Laughter] You know, I would do stupid things like that, man, to aggravate them and stuff like that. But I told them, I say, “Don’t worry about it.” But they told me I had to do mine twice. And I told Ricks, I say, “Man, from 500 a month to 712 every two weeks?” He say, “Please be quiet. Let’s don’t say nothing.” It guaranteed me another six months. But when I did make my move and got everything straightened out, it was four years into it. I was photographed and published in my lifetime, a span of the twenty-one years, I was photographed and published in the Gainesville Sun 105 times. Now, they took a plenty of pictures but they wasn’t published. These the ones that was published, you know, so, yeah.

	T:	I have one more question about your firefighting career. Is there one particular job from those twenty-one years that stands out most in your memories, for good, or maybe—?

	C:	Yeah, me and Burnell Parker, when they put us on Truck 5, we was on the Hurst tool. Jaws of Life? And we did, in 1977 when they first came out, me and Burnell went to the junkyard cutting Detroit steel. We took the top off a car; had the top six feet behind the car, all four doors on the ground, and the seat cut loose from the frame. We did this, and the time that we did that, that record stood for something like thirteen years.

	T:	Wow.



	C:	Well, now here’s what happened: the first year when they made the Hurst tool, they made it so good until it didn’t break down. So about the fourth year, they cut





back on it. Now they making aluminum cars. You don’t need all that sheer horsepower. So when they decreased the power of the machine, they couldn’t do the wrecks like the one that we had. When I retired in [19]92, Burnell retired in [19]93 and [19]96—no, wait. It was five or six years later they had the world’s Olympic championship challenge in Gainesville, Florida. The best firemen come from all over the world come to Gainesville, Florida to beat our record, to no avail. Now, that was the moment of me and Burnell’s life, yeah. When the competition was over with, a team from Sydney, Australia, they was three seconds off to win, two seconds to tie. And they couldn’t do it. And so I walked down the field, I say, “Burnell! That’s our record! Look at they record.” And I’m’a be honest with you: half of the crowd that was there, the jokers sit back and gawk, and the other half that were real good firemen, they stood up and cheered. Now, that was minute of my life right there, that me and Burnell, and they couldn’t break our record. And I don’t know who did, but it stood for a long time. Me and Tommy Edwards, we held a record for a long time. I don’t know how long, but there was this trailer that was a maze, and you crawl through it and went down this way and—on a BackTrack trailer—and you had to go through it up and down and all this kind of stuff. And with a partner, you had to wait for your partner. Me and Tommy Edwards, I had to wait for him. And we set the new record. And that truck had left and went all over the United States. When it got back to Gainesville, this guy, Don King—the district chief, he was district chief then— when he got ready to go, I’m here telling him how to do this and what to do, you know, feel the hinges, you know, stuff. And somebody say, “Who hold the





record for this test right here?” He say, “I don’t know; the name up there on the inside in the corner.” And they went there and looked. They say, “Marion Coleman and Tommy Edwards, Local 2157 Gainesville.” They say, “Man, he been retired so and so.” He say, “Well, ain’t nobody beat they time yet.” And man, that was another shot in the foot for them, you know? They didn’t like me. And then here come some more icing on the cake, that as long as this truck been gone, me and Tommy Edwards—and Tommy Edwards, they didn’t know I had to wait for him! They said, “Man!” But I was a super dude as a fire fighter. I’m not saying that I—you know, there is a saying say, “All men are born equal, but only a certain few be selected for fire fighters.” And that’s true. That’s ever so true, buddy. It ain’t too many people that crawl in a burning building. I can say that because I was one, but it’s going take a lot of nerve to crawl in a burning building. I don’t care who you is. Yeah. With the things that I’ve done and achieved in the fire department, I don’t think nobody else can do it. I know they can’t. Because they ain’t going let one man train no fourteen Blacks and twelve Whites. Not now. They ain’t going to do that. They don’t have enough stuff to do it with. They got one little hothouse out there, and a simulated tanker that they can put maybe about 300 gallons of diesel in it and set it on fire. And then this right here, you know what it—? [Tapping noise] Do that, just do that. But the real fire college is in Lowell. You ever been down there?

	T:	I’ve passed by it. I never been into the campus.





	C:	Man, I’m’a tell you; that’s the place where you—I tell you what: at 350 degrees, you can bake a turkey. Well, when you going to school at Florida State Fire College, the building is heated to 1400 degrees and they send you in it.

	T:	What? [Laughter]



	C:	Yeah! But I’m’a tell you what made me so aggressive being a firefighter: when we was in training down at Lowell, they come out with the new material that the fire suits were made out of. And a guy had a block, a square block about that big, and he had one of those little blow torches. And he had it in his hand like this, and he had about this far from the pad. And he was just sitting there holding it, you know, holding it and holding it. And I’m saying to myself, “Now, this is fire retardant. If I had a charged line in my hand, I ain’t going let no fire be that close to me for that long! If it’s going to hold off a fire off that long, so be it. The hot ashes—if I crawl through some of them, I ain’t going get burned because it’s fire retardant.” When I saw that demonstration, and when I suit up and tighten up, I can go. I wasn’t there six months, and there was a fire there at 4th Street and Williston Road, and it was two Black kids in it. And the house was getting it. And we got there and the two kids were hollering. And they say, “Coleman, don’t go in there!” I say, “Man, I got to go.” And I got orders not to go, and I went and got both of those kids. And one of them was here about three night ago, and he got burns on him and everything. And if you ask him about all the burns, when he tell you, chill bumps will come on him and he’ll start crying. He’ll say, “This man here went against orders to get me and my brother out that house.” And I did. And Chief Hardy was the one to say that I wasn’t going nowhere. He was the one told





me not to go. And I wasn’t there six months. I could’ve lost my job just like that. [Snaps] Because I disobeyed orders. But, I was successful. See, I was the hero then.

T:  And you still see at least one of them. C:  Yeah.

T:   Wow.



C:   Yeah.



T:   Amazing.



	C:	Matter of fact, both of them—the kids live, and one died here maybe about two years ago. And the other one was over here about three nights ago. And Chief Hardy, he been passed now about maybe two and a half years. Yeah. But that was a good old man. But the memorable moments is when you save somebody’ life, and that’s very rewarding. A girl, when I was riding rescue, her name was Johnnie Mae, and she was legally blind. And she was going to school at Williams Elementary when I was a janitor there. And I was riding rescue when I first got there. And we got this call, a lady having a baby. And man, we took off and went there, somebody say, “What’s up Cole?” I say, “How’s it going, man?” She say, “Mr. Coleman, that’s you?” And I say, “Yeah, Johnnie Mae, how you doing?” She say, “I’m fixing to have a baby. See right there?” And did like this, and I could see the baby’ head, man! [Laughter] I say, “Johnnie Mae, put your legs down!” Man, I had to jump up on the stretcher and put my hand inside her vagina and hold that baby’ head back. I had to put pressure on that baby’ head trying to keep it in. And we was at Mt. Carmel—we was at 5th Avenue and 4th Street, and we went past





what’s now Blount College. Went down 6th Street all the way to 2nd Avenue, and when we turned the corner Alachua General was right there on 2nd? That’s when that baby popped in my hand. Pook! [Laughter] I say, “Golly!” And the first thing I did, I just wrapped the navel cord and twisted and held it, and when we rolled into the emergency room, I just did like this, and they come and got it and cleaned it up and everything. But I done did it all, man, in the fire department. It’s nice. It’s a good job, but it takes one good solid individual with a clear-thinking head to do a good job. Yeah, you got to have a cool nerve to do that. Yeah.

	T:	You got some stories Mr. Coleman. I thank you for your time. C:	Sure enough, sure enough.

	T:	Sharing some of that today. So, we’ll have people look you up in the phonebook to get those fire tours.

	C:	Yeah, man! [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Charity Kelly, November 25, 2019 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 2, 2020

	Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, May 22, 2020