AAHP 336; Jordan; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 336 Jasmine and Maya Jordan African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Raina Shipman on May 17, 2014 43 minutes | 30 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 336

Interviewee: Jasmine and Maya Jordan Interviewer: Raina Shipman

Date: May 17, 2014



	S:	What’s your name? JJ:	Jasmine Jordan.

	S:	And what’s your name? MJ:	Maya Jordan.

	S:	Okay. And what is your birthdays? What’s your birthday? JJ:	May 28th, 1993.

	MJ:	July 25th, 1997.



	S:	So how old are you, on a side note? MJ:	Sixteen.

	JJ:	Twenty.



	S:	Oh, okay. And are you guys in school? JJ:	I just graduated from Florida State.

	S:	Oh, okay.



	MJ:	I’m in high school, junior.



	S:	And what was your major in Florida State? JJ:	I doubled in Theater and Humanities.

	S:	I heard that you said that you’re doing the Journalism Institute at UF? Is that during this summer, or—?

	MJ:	Yes.



	S:	So when did you guys start at Macedonia? Have you grew up here, or—? MJ:	We both grew up here. I’ve been here my whole life.

	S:	And you too?





	JJ:	Yes, we joined officially in 2006, but we’ve been going for a long time. S:	So your parents came here?

	JJ:	Yes.



	S:	Where they here since they were born? Or, how long have they—?



	JJ:	No. Our dad went here when he was a kid, and then his family went to Mt.



Moriah for a while. And he started coming here regularly when he married our mom in 1989.

	S:	So, is your family from Melbourne, or—? JJ:	Our dad is from Palm Bay.

	MJ:	And our mom is from Antigua. It’s an island in the West Indies.



	S:	Yeah. [Laughter] And when’d your mom move here from Antigua? MJ:	She moved here in 1985. She started college here.

	JJ:	She went to Saint Leo.



	S:	And what is your parents’ professions, right now?



	JJ:	Our dad is an electrical technician, and our mother works for Brevard Workforce.



She helps people to find jobs. So, she helps with resume building, and helping people find unemployment, and scholarships to take classes.

		S:	So were you guys baptized at Macedonia? MJ and JJ:	Yes.

	MJ:	We were baptized the same year we joined. JJ:	We were baptized on the same day.

	S:	How old were you guys when you were baptized? MJ:	I was nine.







JJ:

So, I was thirteen.

S:

Okay, and so you’ve been here all your life. How are you active in in the church?



Like what aspects, are you in the choir, or—?

MJ:

I’m in youth choir, the praise team. I’m on the Publications Ministry, the



Welcoming Committee, and Sunday School.

JJ:

I’ve been away, so I haven’t been very active.

S:

Oh yeah, you were at Florida State.

JJ:

Mmhm.

S:

And you said you were in the choir? How long were you in the choir?

MJ:

I’ve been since 2006.

S:

What made you join the choir?

MJ:

I like singing.

S:

You like singing?

MJ:

Yeah.

S:

Was your mom in the choir?

JJ:

No. [Laughter]

S:

You said you weren’t in the choir?

JJ:

No. [Laughter]

S:

Do any of your grandparents or anything come here now? Or are they still in—?

JJ:

No

MJ:

On our mom’s side our grandparents still live in Antigua. And our grandparents



on our dad’s side did come here, but moved to Mt. Moriah.

S:

Do you have any other family members at this church?





	JJ:	At this church? No. But we have a lot of family at Greater Mt. Moriah. S:	And that’s in Melbourne?

	JJ:	Unh-uh.



	MJ:	Palm Bay?



	JJ:	Mmhm.



	S:	Do you have any cherished memories from Macedonia or anything like that?



	JJ:	Probably the Christmas and Easter Cantatas. We both performed in them. One year, I was the littlest angel in the Christmas Cantata. That was really fun.

	MJ:	I was Mary this year in the Easter Cantata. Mary Magdalene. S:	What it like a musical?

	JJ:	Mine was not a musical. [Laughter]



	S:	I was going to say, did you sing? [Laughter] JJ:	No. [Laughter]

	S:	So what was it, like a play? JJ:	It was a play.

	S:	Why is Macedonia important to you? JJ:	Do you want to go first?

	MJ:	I think it’s important to me because, well, recently it’s helped me really find what I want to start doing with my life. And Minister Angie’s helped me, and Publications Ministry has helped me, but I feel surrounded by good people and good adults here that care about the youth. And our pastor cares about his youth a lot. And you can see that, and I think there’s just good kids around here. And it’s a good environment to be in.





	JJ:	I feel really supported. It’s a real family. They say you’re never alone when you have God, but you’re also never alone because you have this rich family that’s just so generous and so, so helpful. Especially going away to school, I always had my prayer team at home praying for me, and encouraging me, and asking me what I was doing and what I was interested in. It was really motivating.

	S:	You said being at the church helped you to find out what you want to do. What do you want to do? You want to go into journalism, or—?

	MJ:	I know want to go into Communications, and I want to see about Journalism this summer, I’m going to see what that’s really about. But I’ve been doing print media pretty much here for articles, and that’s been a good experience for me.

	S:	What schools did you go to in Melbourne, like high school, middle school, elementary?

	MJ:	Elementary school, I started at Long Leaf, and then I had to move to Creel Elementary because we were out of zone, so when she finished elementary school, they made me leave. So I went there for four years, and then I went to L.

	B. Johnson Middle School, and then I went to— JJ:	Did you skip Creel?

	MJ:	No, I just said that. JJ:	Sorry. [Laughter]

	MJ:	And then I went to Eau Gallie High School, and I started at Eastern Florida State College my tenth grade year. So, I’m dual-enrolled there.

	JJ:	I went to Long Leaf, as well. I was the first graduating class of Long Leaf. And it’s a pretty new school. And then I went to McNair, which is in Cocoa. It was a





magnet school for performing arts. And for high school I went to Eau Gallie, and I also dual-enrolled at Eastern Florida State College back when it was still called Brevard Community College, which has been a new change.

	S:	And where is that college? Is it in Melbourne?



	JJ:	It’s also in Melbourne. We looked at a program where you could take classes during the day at the community college, and also take classes at the high school. So, you’d finish with your AA.

	S:	Oh wow, that’s really good. So you want to go into performing arts and things like that?

	JJ:	Yeah.



	S:	So do you do anything at the church regarding performing arts? Like, any of the dances, or anything like that?

	JJ:	I did some of the plays. I don’t really dance. Mostly just acting. S:	So at Florida State, you said—what did you major in?

	JJ:	Theater and Humanities.



	S:	Okay. In what ways has Macedonia impacted the community since you guys have been here?

	JJ:	All the Habitat for Humanity’s homes, and all of the properties that Macedonia has purchased to try and get to people in the community, kind of revamped the area around the church. They make homes for people.

	MJ:	And something we did a couple years ago, we stopped doing it, but we had this thing called the “Cookie Disciples”?

	JJ:	Oh, I was part of that. [Laughter]





	MJ:	And we’d come in on a Saturday morning and bake cookies. And we had a sick and shut-in list on our program. And we’d take it to their houses and talk to them for a while, and just visit them, because they can’t come to church. And just bring them cookies, and it really made their day.

	S:	What was it called?



	MJ and JJ:	The cookie disciples.



	JJ:	It was mostly, I think it was all ladies, but we were all given the names of members who couldn't come to church, and we give them phone calls once a week.

	S:	That’s so nice.



	JJ:	There’s a lot of Evangelism out in the surrounding neighborhood. S:	The church owns some of the house around there, right?

	MJ and JJ:	Mmhm.



	S:	Do they build the houses themselves, or have you helped with Habitat for Humanity?

	JJ:	Yeah, we’ve done Habitat for Humanity. S:	How was that?

	JJ:	It was hard.



	MJ:	It was hard. [Laughter]



	S:	So how many houses did you help build? JJ:	I only helped with one.

	MJ:	And I think it’s the same house that our brother now lives in.





	S:	Oh, wow. So are the house for, I heard they were for single moms or something?



Do you know what houses are for? Anyone who needs them?



	MJ:	I think it’s just low income families.



	S:	Are you involved in any other community things, other than through the church and Melbourne?

	JJ:	I performed at the Henegar Center in downtown Melbourne. S:	What is that exactly?

	JJ:	It’s a theater. I performed there. And I volunteered at the summer camps there sometimes. We both work at summer camps.

	S:	As counselors?



	JJ:	As camp counselors.



	S:	How long have you been in that? JJ:	This will be my third summer.

	MJ:	This is my first time. S:	How do you like it? MJ:	I haven’t started.

	JJ:	We start, next week? MJ:	Mmhm.

	JJ:	Wow, soon! [Laughter]



	S:	So, what do you do there as a camp counselor?



	JJ:	It’s like what you think of when you think of summer camp; it’s dodgeball, and singing songs, and arts and crafts.

	S:	So it’s fun, right?





	JJ:	Yeah, it’s pretty fun. And I worked with five and six year olds, so that was always an adventure. [Laughter]

	S:	What makes Macedonia so special to you?



	JJ:	It’s where we grew up. There’s this real sense of nostalgia. I think a lot of memories looking back only make sense, and are only important, because of the people and the members who were always looking after us and watching out for us.

	MJ:	I think probably because it makes you feel so encouraged. Because I never really liked public speaking or anything, but I’ve been doing welcoming, and I even spoke a word our pastoring anniversary this year. I’ve just been getting encouraged more and more to get up and speak, and it’s helped me a lot; helped me gain confidence, and people are just very supportive there. It helps.

	S:	And what college are you planning on going to? You said you’re going into your senior year?

	JJ:	That’s a great question.



	MJ:	Yeah, I’m going into my senior year. Either UF or FSU. [Whispering] UF. [Laughter]

	S:	Where do you think Macedonia is going from here?



	JJ:	I think it can only go up. It can only expand. I think the Youth Ministry, especially, is growing and expanding every year. I think we’re heading towards a really blossoming Youth Ministry; and the Publications Ministry, obviously, is growing more than ever.





	MJ:	I think right now, being in Publications Ministry as one of the editors, we’re looking for people to take our positions because we are leaving next year. So, we’ve really started looking at the youth that we have, and looking at even the youngest ages; even having them as photographers, just showing up at events seeing what we do, looking at how we operate and stuff. So I think really having to figure out who’s going to take our place is making realize that we do have greatness in our church. And that we’re continuing to go far.

	S:	And what do you do exactly in the Publication Ministry? Do you, like—?



	MJ:	I’m one of the editors, so I write, and I’m at the events, and I help photography, and I’m very close with Minister Angie. We do a lot of—I’m on all the planning committees, and—.

	S:	And were you in any ministries when you were in here? JJ:	I was in the Drama Ministry.

	S:	So they put on the plays and things like that? JJ:	Plays, cantatas.

	S:	What exactly are the cantatas?



	JJ:	Cantata? It’s like, for Easter or Christmas. It’s a special play that’s just at that point, and there’s usually some acting, and then some dance.

	MJ:	And mime. We have a mime team and a dance team, we used to have a step team.

	JJ:	Step team. Maya was on that.



	S:	How long were you on the step team?



	MJ:	Like, a year. I danced for like a year. [Laughter]





	S:	So is it a big youth here at the church? JJ:	Yeah, we have a lot of youth.

	S:	And since you’ve been here, has it been the same pastor, or has it—? MJ:	Yes.

	S:	And what other youth programs are here at the church? JJ:	They go to EKO every year.

	MJ:	When you asked what our favorite memory, I think that was probably mine. EKO camp stands for “Every Kid Outreach.” And it’s a camp we go to every year in Ocala National Forest for three days. And we spend the weekend there. They take your phones away and you don’t have any electronics. You’re really just stripped down. And you’re on a camp site, and you have bunk beds, so you’re just close to all the girls in your room. And you have morning glory service, and worship at night, and then you get free time. And it’s just a good experience. My favorite experience from the camp is, on Saturday nights we have glory service, and then we go into this field, and we just release everything we need to. And just stand by yourself in the field, completely open, and you can just stand out there for as long as you need, and you just look up at the stars, and it’s really—.

	S:	Have you ever been to one of the—?



	JJ:	I went one year. And we also did Army Conference a couple years ago. S:	What is that?

	JJ:	Army Conference— MJ:	It was in Orlando.

	JJ:	It was a lot like EKO. And it was much bigger.





	MJ:	It was very live.



	JJ:	It was very live. There was a lot of live Christian music and workshops. It was just about purity, and about maintaining your faith when you’re away at school; and just workshops. Like, that kind of thing.

	MJ:	And I don’t know if the people who helped send us to these camps realize how much they impact our lives, but they really do. Because I look forward to going, and I feel like it always comes at the most perfect times. Whenever I’m down, I feel like EKO is always right about that time. So, it really helps me. And Army Conference, last time I went, I watched a girl have a demon come out of her on the hotel room floor. It really changes lives.

	JJ:	And when you can’t afford to go, the church will sponsor you. S:	So how many people actually go to this?

	JJ:	When I went to Army Conference, it was probably fifteen? MJ:	Fifteen, twenty, yeah.

	JJ:	And then, EKO is also—



	MJ:	This year, I think we had thirty at EKO. S:	And how long is EKO?

	MJ:	Three days.



	S:	And how long is the Army Conference? MJ:	About the same.

	JJ:	About the same, yeah.



	S:	Okay. Are you involved in any Christian things at FSU when you were there?





	JJ:	I attended Bethel at FSU. Bethel was a Baptist church that was in Tallahassee. It was within walking distance of my dorm freshman year. So that’s pretty much how I settled on that.

	S:	And what organizations were you involved in FSU?



	JJ:	At FSU, I did productions with the school theater. I was dramaturge for the student theater association. I was part of an improv troupe. I had a lot of fun.

	MJ:	What about me?



	S:	Oh, yeah, in your high school, what organizations are you in in your high school? [Laughter]

	MJ:	I am in chorus and band. I play French horn; I’ve been playing for five years. I play lacrosse. I was in my school’s inaugural team, so history in the making. [Laughter] That’s been fun. We have SC at my school and then National Honors Society.

	S:	So when you graduate, you’re going to have your AA, right? MJ:	Mmhm.

	S:	In regards to how the church and the community coincide, what other things have they done other than the houses for Habit for Humanity?

	MJ:	We have Fifth Sunday Union. Which is when a month has five Sundays, there’s always a program the last weekend. And the kids get together, and there’s an adults night, and a kid’s night, and service at one of the churches on Sunday.

And on the Saturday, we all get together at church and just sing, and hear a preacher.

	S:	What is it called again?





	MJ:	Fifth Sunday Union.



	JJ:	And then performing arts goes out into the community a lot. Like, a Juneteenth celebration; we usually have some members of Macedonia’s praise team, where singers or poets come out and speak.

	MJ:	Especially in February, Black History Month. We have programs, like, every weekend. All the communities and all the churches come and celebrate.

Everybody dances and sings.



	S:	You mean that happens here at Macedonia? MJ:	Mmhm.

	S:	Do other churches come here often? JJ:	Pretty often.

	MJ:	We like rotate.



	S:	So you guys go to the other churches? JJ:	Mmhm.

	S:	What are the other churches that you usually—? MJ:	Mount Moriah.

	JJ:	Greater Allen Chapel.



	MJ:	Saint John’s, Saint James’.



	JJ:	Macedonia in Eatonville, as well—which is where we went for Army Conference.



So that was cool, to be in Eatonville.



	S:	Did you learn about a lot of history of Eatonville? MJ:	Mmhm.





	JJ:	Mmhm. We talked about Zora Neale Hurston, and it’s cool to have another Macedonia, far from home.

	S:	When I googled Macedonia, I saw that there was one in Eatonville. Do you have any siblings ̶ other siblings?

	JJ:	We have each other. [Laughter] And we have two half-brothers. S:	Oh okay, are they in Melbourne?

	JJ:	Yes they are.



	S:	Do they come to Macedonia? MJ:	One’s in Cocoa.

	JJ:	No they don’t. Oh yeah, one’s in Cocoa. No they don’t.



	MJ:	And we have nieces and nephews. Our older brother has a son, and our second oldest brother has a daughter and a son.

	S:	And I know you said at Army Conference, about a girl, a demon coming out of her? Could you talk about that?

	MJ:	Yeah, we were just in the hotel room, and they always give you questions to come back and talk about, and we just started talking, and something just got to her, and she just got on the floor and started shaking, just saying, “Jesus.” Just, “Jesus, Jesus, Jesus.” It was scary for me, but it was still like really interesting to watch. And I was like, “Mom why isn’t that happening to me? Why isn’t a demon coming—?” And she was like, “Uh, Maya maybe you don’t have a demon in you!” So I didn’t really understand what was going on, but now I understand. It was different.

	S:	How old was the girl?





	MJ:	She’s a senior this year, so she was probably thirteen at the time? Fourteen?



	S:	Do you have any memorable moments from Army Conference or from the other?



	JJ:	Well we always had—not always, but there was a walk the line, if you’ve been affected by this, or—they were always really heavy. It was really insightful to see that other people from your church, or other people from surrounding churches, were going through similar struggles that you weren’t even aware of. And so, I think that really brought especially the girls in the church together.

	S:	And what’d you say, it’s “walk the line”? JJ:	Walk the line, it’d be like—

	MJ:	You all stand on one side of the room, and they ask you a question, they say, “Walk the line if you’ve ever considered suicide.” And all the girls who had considered suicide would walk to the other side of the room. And so you look at them, and you send them love. And they come back over and you hug them if they’re crying.

	JJ:	I have goosebumps just talking about it, because it was just always—you know, people would cry, and it was really great to just comfort each other and realize that despite our differences, people struggle with a lot of the same things.

	MJ:	It really helps you realize that people are going through things, and sometimes people have hostility and you don’t know why, and it really made me understand. Like, one of the questions that most of the girls walked was, “Walk the line if you haven’t had your father in your life.” And that was a really big group that went.

And that was a sad question for a lot of people. And I always felt bad that I didn’t really have to cross the line that many times, but it made me realize that I’ve





been blessed, and that you don’t have to go through something to realize how much God has blessed you.

	JJ:	Also Nu-Nu.



		MJ and JJ:	Paddy Whack. [Laughter] S:	What is that?

	MJ:	There are these characters. Are they ministers? Or are they—? They’re just [Inaudible 23:34] men.

	JJ:	These two, they’re a young a man and young lady who are really active at Macedonia, Eatonville. They put on these characters called Nu-Nu and Paddy Whack, and they’re just clowns, and they’re absolutely ridiculous. And the things that they come up with are just so out there, and they have these crazy wigs, and they speak with these horrible Southern accents. But it’s always in good fun, and it’s always ultimately to the glory of God. So, I think it’s really cool. They do different characters at different conferences. And they’ve come to Macedonia a couple times. And so, it’s always funny that we’ll be like, “Is Nu Nu here, or is Michelle here?”

	S:	So, in the church, is the youth—you guys are really close because of all these events?

[Inaudible 24:30]



	MJ:	I think we’re kind of, well, out. Because most of them go to same school and they’ve all grown up together. This is this person’s godmom, and everybody’s related. It was kind of harder coming in, because we always there, but we weren’t





incredibly active. So when we joined Sunday School, I think that helped us make a lot more friends, and get closer to the girls.

	JJ:	There aren’t a lot of members of church from Eau Gallie where we went to high school.

	S:	Where’s the high school? Is it farther away from here?



	MJ:	It’s like fifteen/twenty minutes away. So, most people are closer. But we come this way.

		S:	And you said—which one of your parents started come to Macedonia? MJ and JJ:	Our dad.

	S:	Okay. And do you know what made him start coming?



	JJ:	No, they were really little. He has eight brother and sisters. So. They all came here at one point.

	MJ:	He actually met my mom in Antigua, and so they came back, and she started college in Florida. And they started living in Melbourne.

	S:	Where in Florida did she start college? MJ:	Where’s Saint Leo? Upper Tampa.

	S:	And do you guys ever go to Antigua?



	MJ:	We went a lot more when we were younger. But we usually went in the summer and for Christmas. But since we started school, we had classes at BTC in the summer, so

	JJ:	It was harder to go.



	MJ:	We usually go, now, like every other Christmas. And when we are not up there, our grandparents come down to see us. Actually down here, I meant.





	JJ:	Yeah they came for my graduation.



	S:	So you just graduated this past semester? JJ:	Yeah. Last week.

	S:	Congratulations! [Laughter] JJ:	Thank you.

	S:	Do you have any memories from Antigua? Like, from when you go there? MJ:	Devil’s Bridge.

	JJ:	Oh, yeah. I love Devil’s Bridge.



	MJ:	It’s this just, like, rock. This huge rock. And they say it’s where the slaves went to commit suicide. And they say if you listen close enough, you can hear screams and stuff. So it’s really scary.

	JJ:	Yeah, it sounds so scary, but it’s beautiful.



	MJ:	It’s really pretty. But it’s not monitored by anybody, and it’s just super slippery.



So, you do it at your own risk.



	JJ:	You take you take your shoes off, and you stand up there and the water just—



ffwooo!—comes at you.



	MJ:	So there’s this circle just surrounded by rock, and the water pulls in, and then you can time it, and it just comes splashing up. And we just used to sit by and watch it, and see who could predict how many seconds it’d take.

	JJ:	And then, like, all of Christmas is great, too. Christmas Eve we always go to the beach, and then Christmas morning we have sailfish, and—.

	MJ:	Because their winters are hotter than our summers.





JJ:  Yeah, so the beach on Christmas Eve is not weird. [Laughter] And then, Boxing Day, the day after Christmas, we always go to the cemetery and put flowers on the graves of loved ones. And we go visit the family members in town who can’t travel.

	S:	So do you have a lot of family in Antigua? JJ:	Yeah, we have a lot there.

	S:	Are any of your family that’s from Antigua, do they ever come to America?



	JJ:	Our grandparents come and visit. And our cousins, and aunts, and uncles have all visited.

	MJ:	They all come to college in the states. But one of our aunts works for American Airlines, so she just flies to America all the time.

	S:	And where is your dad from, again? JJ:	He’s from Palm Bay.

	S:	Do you guys have a lot of family there? JJ:	We have a ton of family, yeah.

	S:	Do you go there a lot?



	JJ:	Yes, yeah. It’s really close. And our dad has eight brothers and sisters. And so— S:	You have a lot of cousins?

	JJ:	Oh yeah, we have a ton of cousins.



	MJ:	Everyone in our family is girls; we have like three boys in our family, and the rest are girls.

	JJ:	Yeah, it’s mostly girls.



	MJ:	So, we’re really close with our cousins.







JJ:

I was the first. The first girl on my dad’s side of family to graduate from college.

S:

Oh wow, that a good thing. And what do you guys do when you go to Palm Bay?

MJ:

It’s usually for somebody’s birthday.

JJ:

Yeah, usually a fish fry.

MJ:

Family obsessed with fish.

JJ:

Yeah. My dad and all his brothers fish a lot.

S:

Is Palm Bay a small town?

JJ:

It’s pretty big.

MJ:

But our dad works at Cape Canaveral, so he can go fishing at the base. And he



brings all this fish, and we just fry it and eat.

JJ:

And each of our uncles thinks that they’re the best at frying fish, and they catch



the best fish.

S:

How long has your dad been working at Cape Canaveral?

MJ:

Forever and ever and ever. Probably like thirty years?

JJ:

Yeah like thirty years.

S:

Are your parents involved in anything in the church, any ministries or anything?

JJ:

Yeah, our mom’s involved in youth.

MJ:

Oh yeah! Our mom’s—[Laughter]—the youth leader.

JJ:

Coordinator.

MJ:

Coordinator, yeah. Leader.

S:

And your dad, is he?

MJ:

Not really.

JJ:

He’s good at coming. [Laughter]





S:  But that’s always good. Who were you baptized by? JJ:  Rev. Spradway.

S:  And you said that this was on the same day that you became members? JJ:  No. We had to take the baptismal class first. And we took that with Ms.— MJ:  Spadway.

JJ:   Oh, yeah!



	MJ:	So when we went up to ask Pastor to join the church and get baptized, he sent us to this class so we could understand what it’s like to become—

JJ:   Usually when you’re younger, you take the class first.



	MJ:	And so we went to this class, and it’s during the same time as Sunday school. So it’s a pretty even progression from this class to Sunday school. And that’s really how we started going to Sunday school. And they taught you what it’s like to become born again and what it means, so you really get an understanding before you just go and get baptized. Because for me, I know I was just wondering, “Mom why can’t I drink that on first Sundays?” And she was like, “Well you have to be baptized.” I was like “Okay, I want to be baptized.” So I had to really understand what it really meant, and that helped me a lot, because I’m glad that I didn’t do it in vain or anything.

	S:	How long was the class? JJ:	Six weeks.

	S:	What exactly were the types of things you learned in the class?



	MJ:	I remember she had, like, pictures that were made easy for us to understand.



Like, it was a bridge, and every time you stand ̶





	JJ:	That’s what I was going to say—



	MJ:	You got farther away, and the bridge is separated, and then if you ask for forgiveness

	JJ:	It was like God and you, there was two rocks. MJ:	The bridges got closer together.

	JJ:	No, it was like, God and you are the two rocks, and the river was sin. And you’re like “Oh, no; how do I get across?” And then the cross comes, and so it’s like, Jesus.

[MJ and JJ talk over each other at 32:15]



	MJ:	And so you could walk over and be with God. S:	So how many people were in this class?

	JJ:	It was like three. There was maybe one other person. At any given time, though, that class is going on. So anybody could be in it.

	S:	It’s not just younger people? Are older people in it?



JJ:  Usually younger people. I think they kind of assume that if you’re older, you know what you’re saying. But then, after that, we went into our Sunday school classes, and I was with Rev. Ron for a long time, and Sister Roxanne was also one of my teachers. Who else?

MJ:  I had Ms. Phillips first, and Ms. Johant, and then Ms. Roxanne, and then Rev.



Ron, and now Deacon Gaines.



S:   Wonderful. And when’d you guys start Sunday school?



	JJ:	Right after we got baptized.



S:   And are you still in Sunday school now?







MJ:

Uh-huh.

S:

And who’s your Sunday school teacher right now?

MJ:

His name’s Deacon Gaines.

S:

Oh, okay. What class [inaudible 33:33]?

JJ:

Young adult.

MJ:

Yeah, it’s like sixteen to eighteen, I think.

JJ:

The last one I was in was with Rev. Scott.

S:

So, can older people take Sunday classes?

MJ:

Yeah.

JJ:

Uh-huh. Our parents are in Sunday school.

S:

So what are the different groups that you know?

MJ:

It’s pretty much by age group, and then there’s topics classes. That’s for young



adults. There’s like a topics class for young adults, and then older adults.

JJ:

Yeah there’s a college age one that you can come to anytime you’re in town.

S:

Does the church do any fundraising things or anything like that?

MJ:

No, our pastor doesn’t like fundraising.

S:

No fundraising?

MJ:

No.

JJ:

We had a couple a long time ago, like car washes and things, for the Youth



Ministry to go to things like Army Conference. But not a lot.

S:

And how much does it cost you to go to Army Conference and things like that?

MJ:

Like seventy, eighty.

JJ:

Yeah.





	S:	So do you guys come to church like every Sunday? Like, during the weekdays as well sometimes?

	MJ:	Yeah. Well, Sundays and Thursdays we have choir practice. JJ:	I don’t have choir practice. [Laughter]

	MJ:	Tuesdays there’s Bible Study.



	S:	And Bible Studies are in the same rooms as Sunday school? MJ:	Bible Study is in the Life Center. Sunday school’s up here.

	S:	How many people are usually in Bible study? Is that separated by ages as well? MJ:	Yeah, there’s children’s Bible study and then adults’.

	JJ:	Or topics classes.



	S:	What are your parents’ names? JJ:	Our dad is Benny.

	MJ:	Benny Jordan. And our mom is Della Jordan. S:	And you said they met in Antigua?

	JJ:	Mmhm.



	S:	And how long ago was that? How long have they been married? JJ:	They’ve been married since 1989. So that would be— [Inaudible 36:00]

	JJ:	Yeah, twenty-five years.



	MJ:	Oh yeah, charming math major! [Laughter]



	S:	Actually I just said twenty-five because my brother was born in 1989. So that’s how I knew. Do you do the Army Conference every year, or are you guys going to do it again?





	MJ:	We haven’t really done it much.



	JJ:	They normally aren’t every year. I don’t know, does it still happen? MJ:	I think it still goes on. We did EKO every year, though.

	S:	EKO, what does it stand for? MJ:	Every Kid Outreach.

	S:	Every Kid Outreach, cool. And who was the pastor when your parents got here, do you know?

	MJ:	It was Ramirez.



	JJ:	Pretty sure.



	U1:	Do you all notice the wealth in the size of youth classes? You all say you see it happening now, but have you all actually been present in seeing extension in that area, in the Youth Ministry with the church? Or has it always been a large—?

	MJ:	Yeah, I think my classes have gotten bigger in Sunday school. And this year, the class that I was in when I was younger—it had like eleven graduates coming into that class, and when I graduated there was only like three of us. So definitely have expanded. Even in Publications Ministry when we started, it was pretty much just me and Takara, who’s the other editor. And we got other youth on board, and now we have photographers and staff writers.

	S:	I know you said that the youth has grown since you’ve been here. In regards to the whole church, has it gotten bigger since you guys been here, or has it always remained, like—?

	JJ:	The size of the congregation? S:	Yes.





	MJ:	It’s pretty much been the same, I think.



	S:	Has the church in general changed since you’ve been here? Other than in regards to size and any other things?

	MJ:	I think—



	JJ:	The Family Life Center has been renovated since we’ve been here. And it was dedicated to Rev. John W. Taylor since we’ve been here. So, that was really exciting.

	MJ:	And for me, I think that it did become more modern in a sense. Because it used to be kind of boring for me to come and hear the men’s choir. I didn’t really like coming to church. But I think we have gotten, we have Gospel Expressions now, and they sing more modern songs. Praise and worship for me has gotten more contemporary, and easier to understand, and actually have worship with God through that music.

	JJ:	And even since we’ve been here, there’s been a push to have more activities and more things that make the message accessible to the youth, even in the last ten years or so. And the library was built since we’ve been here, which is really cool. I like that.

	S:	I know you said that you used to not want to come to church. I know when you’re young you feel like you have to be pushed to go to church. But do you still feel like that now?

	MJ:	No, I like going to church.



	S:	So you feel like you’ll be at Macedonia forever? JJ:	Probably as long as we’re in Melbourne.





	S:	Do you have any plans to leave Melbourne?



	MJ:	For college, yes. And then, I don’t want to live here. S:	After college?

	MJ	No.



	JJ:	I’m thinking about moving to Chicago. S:	Oh, Chicago. For acting?

	JJ:	For theater.



	S:	Would you go to another school?



	JJ:	Yeah, I’m thinking about maybe getting my Master’s or PhD in performance theory. But right now I’m looking at internships in arts administration in Chicago.

	S:	And what school would you go to in Chicago?



	JJ:	I’d love to go to Northwestern’s Performance Theory, Performance Studies program. That’d be really great.

	S:	And your parents, they come to church every Sunday? Do you sometimes come without your parents?

	JJ:	Well, now that we drive—



	MJ:	Yeah, now that I just got my license this year, so when they don’t come, I’ll still drive myself. But we usually go here every Sunday.

	S:	So you get a real family feel from being here at Macedonia? JJ:	Mmhm.

	MJ:	Mmhm.



	U1:	Are you all able to bring your nieces and nephews to church with you? MJ:	Our niece comes.





	JJ:	We have a couple times. She’s a handful. S:	How old is she?

	MJ:	She’s six.



	S:	Your niece stays in Palm Bay, right? [Inaudible 41:52]

	JJ:	Yeah, the one that lives really close.



	S:	Did you say you have nieces and nephews in Palm Bay?



MJ:  We have a niece and nephew right here. Literally across the street. And our other nephew’s in Cocoa.

S:  Do they come here a lot? JJ:  Not very often.

MJ:  No, we babysit for them every now and then, but not too much. S:  What is the name of the high school that you said you went to? JJ:  Eau Gallie.

	S:	And you said it’s not that many people from the high school that come here? JJ:	No.

	S:	There are none?



	MJ:	There was one, and she graduated. S:	When’d she graduate?

	JJ and MJ:	Last year.



	JJ:	Was it Brianna?



	MJ:	Mmhm.



	S:	And what school did your dad go to in Palm Bay?





	JJ:	He went to Melbourne High School. He was a Bulldog. S:	He went to Melbourne High School?

	JJ:	Yes.



	S:	I guess I’ll wrap it up. I won’t keep you guys too long. Thank you again. Did you guys have any last things that you wanted to say about Macedonia?

	MJ:	Nope.



	JJ:	I think we covered it all. S:	Thanks again.

	JJ:	Thank you! [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jessica Lowell, July, 2018 Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, August 2, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 24, 2019