AAHP 100; Frazier; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 100 Drew Frazier

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Anna Brodrecht on August 20, 2010

42 minutes | 16 pages



Abstract: Drew Frazier describes attending Jerkins High School in Perry, Florida, after which he entered the US Army 82nd Airborne Division during the Korean War, and after that the US Air Force. He speaks fondly of his experiences at Jerkins, particularly in athletics, and talks about the overall discipline and structure that he grew up with in the community and particularly through his mother. He also talks about the philosophies that he has developed throughout his lifetime.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Jerkins High School; US Military Veterans]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 100

Interviewee: Drew Frazier Interviewer: Anna Brodrecht Date: August 20, 2010



	B:	So the first thing I’ll just start off by asking you to say your name and spell it. F:	My name is Drew Frazier. D-R-E-W. F-R-A-Z-I-E-R.

		B:	And so when did you graduate from Jerkins? F:	1956

	B:	[19]56? I would not guess it by looking at you. I would not have guessed that. F:	I guess my graduating class was [19]56, but I left in 1954 and went military.

	B:	What branch in the military?



	F:	I went into the 82nd Airborne [inaudible 00:29] for six years, and then I got out of there. Then I went into the Air Force for seventeen more.

	B:	Wow. Seventeen years.



	F:	Seventeen years, yes. I also finished my high school education, which I got my diploma through Jerkins. And I got two years of college in the Air Force.

	B:	Okay, that’s awesome. So did Jerkins have a—you were able to finish your degree through, it wouldn’t be online, but through mail-in or how did that work? That you ended up getting a diploma from Jerkins but didn’t attend classes here?

	F:	Well I attend class on the base through military and then they request my diploma come through the State of Florida from Jerkins High School.

	B:	Okay, that makes sense. So what are your memories of Jerkins? F:	My memories of Jerkins?

	B:	Yeah, it could be anything from the people that you were with or the teachers.





	F:	It was just awesome. From Homer Smith, which was one of our first professors from way back. And Mr. Falls, P.W. Falls; Ms. Roundtree, Sarah Roundtree, which is my homeroom teacher when I was young.

	B:	I’ve heard some stories about Ms. Roundtree, all good stuff of course. [Laughter].



	F:	She’s great, she’s great. I just enjoyed just everything, every moment I spent here at Jerkins High School. It brings back a lot of memories to me and it also does a great deal. I look back over years that things wasn’t as plentiful as they are now are and we had to really scrap hard for what we got. And looking over it all, it was worth while having. All my class, mostly everyone in my class, was very successful and went on to be business men and women and to develop themselves into very prominent individuals.

	B:	Yeah, including yourself.



	F:	And I pass that on to my kids you see. Yeah which I have one son that’s an orthopedic surgeon, and my daughter is also a doctor, and my other daughter, she’s an attorney. So I never forget my roots and Jerkins mean a lot to me. And also my coach, Coach Samuel Turner, my football coach, whom I played for quite a few years when I was here at Jerkins.

	B:	Did you guys have a good football team?



	F:	Oh yes, we did. We had a really good football team and I was looking forward to going on to Florida A&M to play ball, but I got injured, not my senior year, but [inaudible 3:11].

	B:	Okay, what happened? F:	I got my ankle broken.





	B:	Oh no. On the field? F:	Yes, on the field.

	B:	And so you were out of commission for a whole year?



	F:	Yes, so that put me just out of everything, so I decided I’d go military after I had my injuries.

	B:	So what was the process? What did your parents say when you said, “I’d rather join the military than finish school right now”?

	F:	Oh, they didn’t want me to. Oh, they was highly upset. A matter of fact, they didn’t know. They didn’t know. I slipped away. During that time you didn’t have to have a birth certificate or anything. So I put my age up to eighteen to the draft and I volunteered for the draft and after I got the draft, I volunteered for the military. And I went into the military because the Vietnam War was just—I mean the Korea, I’m sorry.

	B:	Okay. I was just reading about the Korean War the other day.



	F:	Yes, the Korean War. It was supposed to have been over but they were still having skirmishes over there. And when I went in, Mom and Dad, they didn’t want me to go, period, But when they knew anything, I was gone.

	B:	Right, right. So did you go to Tallahassee to register?



	F:	No, I registered here in Perry at that time. And we left Perry and we went to Atlanta to be examined, and then we went to Fort Jackson.

	B:	So did you write home and tell your parents where you were or how did that whole process of breaking the news?





	F:	After I was in Basic Training. They knew I was gone, but when I didn’t return home that night, so they figured I was in the military.

	B:	They had to have been worried about you. F:	Oh yes. They knew I was in the military.

	B:	Okay, oh my goodness. So let’s talk a little bit about the schooling that you got at Jerkins, because I’ve spoken with several people that went to an all-Black high school in Gainesville, and they said it wasn’t just schooling like arithmetic and reading, but it was like a life’s education. You got education on how to be a good person and things like that. Did you get that here?

	F:	Yeah, yes I did. You know and I also got my coach. He also gave me the tools that I needed to be a soldier, He taught us how to be a soldier, how to close all the drills, and what to expect, the discipline and everything in the military. And at the time when he was teaching that to all of us, I didn’t really think it was necessary for us to have that added on in physical ed, but I after I went into the military, then I saw where it was very, very useful to me and an asset to my becoming an officer.

	B:	So those life lessons came through physical education as well as in the classroom.

	F:	Yes they did. Yes they did. And the discipline and everything that we had in school was entirely—discipline was different from what it is today. Our homeroom teacher, she could discipline us like principals or whatever But at the time, I thought some of them were being pretty mean and so was my mom, but I tell them you, I says, “When I was coming along, if the rules and things that were





like that are now the laws, there’s a lot of people would be in jail or in prison.” And I said, “momma would be in prison.” But mom was not a mean person, but she was strict. And one thing that I appreciate, things that she did and the things that my teachers had taught and always expected from us was discipline. And the things they did teach us really was necessary, an asset to me in the military, and in my life. Really it did. It really helped me a lot and also to be a parent, and to try to be a good parent for my kids, to know what to expect and to let them know what to expect from me. And I tried to do the same thing, to set that example for them. So when I tell them something, when I ask them something, I want the truth. And I expect the truth.

	B:	Right, right. And there’s a little bit of fear that you have put in there too through discipline at home.

	F:	Of course. I always tell people that you have to have fear in your kids, because if you don’t have that fear to them, then they won’t respect you. But not the fear where they are afraid of you, but the fear that if they do something wrong, they know the consequences, Because we all have fear. If we didn’t have fear, we would do things that we wouldn’t necessarily do. Because we are in fear of getting in trouble, in fear of going to jail, we have fear of different things and the consequences of things. So therefore—but also listen. Listen to what your kids have to say. Sit down and have monthly meetings with your family.

	B:	Have dinner with your family, which is something that so many families don’t do.



	F:	I was just saying, I just had a roundtable discussion with my family, my whole family. Because what you have to say is important and I’m not always right, you





see? And when I be away for six months or a year or whatever time it is, I come home, you have to fill me in on what’s going on. And this is what this school taught me. A lot of the things that I learned in here in this school here and from my teachers and my peers here, and also my fellow classmates. We had a bond here. We really did. We had a bond. We didn’t have to worry about—I’m not saying we didn’t get upset with each other or had fights or whatever, but it was not to the fact where someone had to go to the hospital or someone went to jail or whatever.

	B:	There was a knife or anything drawn like that.



F:  Oh no, no, no. That was not it. We got into a fist fight or something, the next five minutes or fifteen minutes we was hugging people, laughing, or drinking a soda together, or whatever it was.

	B:	It sounds like this place was a community, like more so than a school, even though it is a school, but it’s also part of the community.

	F:	It was. This place, I tell you, the citizens that this school turned out, the students, it’s unbelievable. We have heart surgeons, we have doctors, we have attorneys, we have military, we have police officers, you name it, this school here—this little small town here have developed more business men and women from their level than a whole lot of schools with a higher you know. Without having any of what I’m speaking for negative, from the negative point, from not having prisons. I can’t think of one of these classmates of mine or anyone at the time getting shot over drugs or going to jail or selling drugs or in jail now from selling drugs or anything. I can’t think of one.





	B:	And so it’s hard to—



	F:	Because we all wanted to be successful. We all strived for it. We had negative things around us that we had to look at every day that we didn’t want a part of; we wanted to be better than that. The saw mills, the cotton fields, tobacco fields.

	B:	The experiences that your parents had.



	F:	All these things, we wanted to be better than that. We wanted to show we was better than that. We wanted to show and prove to ourselves that we could achieve more than that. That’s why I left and that’s why I worked to be the best I could be. And I did that. I accomplished that and I’m proud of that.

	B:	Right. That’s such a great thing to be able to look back at your career and say, “I did what I intended to do.” I hope in fifty years or in twenty years I can say the same thing. But is that something that you drew from Jerkins, that you felt like your parents and your teachers, that collaboration between parents and teachers and your classmates, that you kinda fueled each other in that?

	F:	Yes, yes, yes, we did. Because my closest classmate and I, we went in the military together under the buddy-buddy system. And at the time we was young, never been away from home before in our lives or whatever, but we wasn’t afraid. And I found out and I told my kids, and I tell my grandkids, and I tell everyone, “Don’t be afraid to step out in the border. Don’t be afraid to make that step. That’s the only way you can be successful, is to take that first step.” Have confidence and trust in yourself, believe in yourself, and be truthful to yourself and to others.





	B:	And that sounds like something that you would learn in high school, which is where we are.

	F:	Yes, yes. And my teacher I never will forget. I had a teacher when I was in about the third grade. Her name was Michelle Meyer. I never will forget the lady. She was about six feet tall. Yes. And she would talk to me and I would look down on the ground or I would look around and she would tell me—she had a heavy, deep voice. She would tell me, “Drew.” I’d say, “Yes ma’am,” beautifully. She says, “Look at me.” And I’d look up. She said, “Don’t you ever look down on the ground when I’m talking to you.” She said, “Look me in my eyes.” And I really developed that from that lady telling me to look her in her eyes when I was talking to her. You could not look down on the ground when you was talking to Ms. Meyer. You could not look around. She wanted you to look her eyes to eye ball and she would tell me, “That’s the way I know you telling me the truth.” Say I could look at you and know when you’re telling me the truth. Said, “If you can’t look me in my eyes, you can’t tell me the truth.”

	B:	And that’s something that through the military—I mean you have to do that in the military, right?

	F:	And that’s something that I had my kids, I told my kids the same. I said, “Don’t ever look down on the ground when you are addressing someone.” When you’re talking about any one thing or to anyone, look them in the eye. Always look a man or woman in the eye when you’re talking to them.





B:  And so it’s hard to understand Jerkins without understanding segregation. Is there anything that—you said that it was a time of scarcity, but you made the best of it. Do you remember memories of segregation?

	F:	Segregation. Yes, we had segregation. But segregation at that point in time, at Jerkins, it didn’t bother us because at Jerkins that was a way of life. How can I put that? We grew up with that. We was taught that from babies. We was taught about segregation from babies. The word I’m trying to say is that we was already initiated and we was already conditioned. We was conditioned, that’s what I like to call it. We was conditioned for all this, see. But things that bothered us was not here at Jerkins. It was when we went downtown or when we got away from our area. And then we had to encounter other problems or whatever you see. And then that’s when you really hit you that you was not equal or things was not the same. You know what I’m saying or whatever. And that was another reason I wanted to leave Perry, leave the South, leave period, and go in the military so I could get away from the prejudice and this type of life. See, not that I wanted to leave Jerkins, but it was time for me to move on with my life and try something new and different, which I did.

	B:	So Jerkins was also a safe haven in a way. F:	Yes it was.

	B:	Because there weren’t any White people here to discriminate against anybody?



	F:	No it wasn’t, no there wasn’t, no there wasn’t. And here at Jerkins we also had spirituality. We did have that. We had the pledge of allegiance of flag, we had





prayer, we had a lot of things that you don’t have in classes in school today. Which really helped us to be close and kept us grounded.

	B:	Right and as a holistic—it’s an education and not just schooling, in other words. It was tied into your values.

	F:	We had the overall picture of things and they also taught us about our ancestors, about our history. We also wanted to learn about our history. We didn’t learn everything about it, but we had our elders to talk to us, our teachers to talk to us about where they came from and how things developed and how all these things about their upcoming and their upbringing. Some things that we couldn’t learn in the books, wasn’t in the books that they talked to us about and made us appreciate our surroundings. No matter what it was, we appreciated what we had to know from what they was telling us. Because we thought we had it hard; they would tell us things that made us—and then they would tell a story so well until you could almost imagine their picture in your mind about what they had to go through.

	B:	To say their generation had it even worse than your generation.



	F:	Yes, yes, yes. And I know what my generation went through to date. And I can relate to what they was talking about.

	B:	Now when you tell your kids about your generation then—



	F:	Oh yes, they know because I’ve seen some pretty horrible things with eyes too from the time that I was twelve until I grew up to be seventeen years old and leave home. Because I saw some pretty bad things happen. But you see, it’s things like this, I found out in life you can’t hold on to the past. You can hold on to





the past, but you have to forgive in order to be happy. But you don’t forget, because you’ll always be strong, let the things happen in the past make you strong. That gives me momentum to keep on fighting for what I believe in, to keep on pushing for better education, being a better parent, being a better man, proving people wrong who said you couldn’t achieve it, who said you couldn’t make it. Course, everybody don’t believe in you and everybody’s not gonna like you. I don’t care what color you are or who you are. But it’s not about that, it’s about you, doing the best you can do and being the best you can be.

	B:	So do you remember any lessons in school that you knew you had this White textbook that was passed down from the White school?

	F:	I knew that. We knew that.



	B:	Do you remember any lessons that your teacher said, “All right just shut your books now and I’m gonna tell you the real story, because it’s not in this book”?

	F:	No. Well my teacher, she never would tell us to close our books, but we knew our books were hand-me-down books. We knew that. But the stories that our teacher would tell us, they would tell us about the books. Say now you see, we don’t have first class books. The books we have, some of them the pages were torn out or whatever it is. But she would fill us in on the things that we needed to know that wasn’t there in the books sometimes. But there was always that extra step that they were willing to take, to make sure that every teacher that I was under, they always took that extra step and went that extra mile to try to make sure that were successful and achieve their goal, which was to educate us and prepare us.





And Ms. Roundtree was one of the best, and I’m telling you, and my third grade teacher Ms. Martin. I’ll never forget.

	B:	You remember them like they’re your parents. I mean that’s what the stories that I’ve heard today have been the teachers are parents because, first of all they know your parents, and if you mess up in class, that’s the first person they’re going to tell.

	F:	Listen, in my grade school when I was growing up, I hated to get—if I got a note from school, I got a discipline at school, and when I got a note from school, I went home. I was afraid to take it home, but if I didn’t take it home, the teacher would stop by the house and ask mom, “Did Drew bring a note home?” Mom would say, “What note?” “Well I gave him a note.” Oh Lord I was in trouble. And if I took the note home, I was in trouble. So it doesn’t matter what, I couldn’t win.

But that’s the parent working with the teacher. And that’s the way it goes. I don’t care what I say, the teacher was always right. My mother was always there on the teacher’s side, no matter what it was. And so I couldn’t say nothing. I had no win. And I couldn’t tell momma a lie, because mom was the same way. You couldn’t lie to momma. If you did, you were in trouble. My sister and I told mom, I said, “When I was growing up mom was about 5’4, 5’5 and I thought mom was six feet tall she hit so hard.” [Laughter].

	F:	But really she is the sweetest old lady that you ever want to see, and that’s one reason why that I’m up here today too, is because of her. She’s here in the nursing home. I brought her from Orlando here. She wanted to come back home and I have her up here in Marshall. She’s ninety-eight years old. And now still





have her mind together. She’s ninety-eight and I come up here every other weekend to check on her and see about her. And I call every day. And I call her my baby now.

	B:	Aww that’s so sweet. See, that’s how you can tell that you were raised very well, to the point where you wanna give back to your mom and dad.

	F:	I could never repay for what she gave me. Never, ever repay her. No, no.



	B:	And so do you remember the lessons that your mom told you, any lessons that your mom told when you were a child about how to cope with what was going on with segregation and discrimination and things like that?

	F:	Well you see coming from a mixed family that I came from— B:	How so mixed?

	F:	So my great-grandfather was Caucasian, and my granddaddy was half. My granddaddy, his father was Caucasian and his mother was a slave.

	B:	Oh. So how did they end up together?



F:  Well you see they came from . . . my grandmother and my granddaddy was from Virginia. And when they got together in Virginia, and his father found out about it, he took my grandmother and they ran off.

B:   Southern love story.



F:  And they ran off and got married. B:  They came to Florida.

F:  They went to Georgia, and he passed himself off as Black. And that’s why my granddaddy came in and his brothers and his sisters and my granddaddy grew up and he married a Cherokee.





	B:	Oh okay, you do have a mixed up family. [Laughter]. That’s awesome. F:	Yes. So my grandmother was Cherokee Indian.

	B:	Okay. And they met in Georgia somewhere?



	F:	In Georgia. Yes my granddaddy did, and my grandma. B:	And the how did they come to Perry?

	F:	Well my granddaddy moved to Boyd, Florida. They moved to Boyd and he’s a farmer.

	B:	Okay, you have an interesting family story.



	F:	And as of today my family, we still have a family of internationality almost. We have my family in California is Mexicans, Caucasians, Puerto Ricans. My sister has six, three boys and three girls. But from those three, she have thirty-seven grandkids and great-grands and all of them of different nationalities. About twelve of them was here a week ago and I [inaudible 24:46-24:48].

B:  Oh, that’s awesome. Knowing that your family was mixed up, did that help you cope with what was going or did it hurt you to think my family does fine with all these races in it, why can’t the rest of the world?

	F:	You see one thing about it, it helped me in a way because mom told us about all this and granddaddy, when I was a little boy, granddaddy sat us down and told us a story of his daddy and different things what happened and how things happened. So that helped us to be able to cope with it and helped us to also not to hold prejudice. We couldn’t, because our family was also mixed. And to carry ourselves in a way where we wouldn’t have to endure with these things. We knew what to expect, so why put yourself in harm’s way? And they had mentored





us and they had conditioned us for these things. So with that conditioning and then my auntie, she worked with John Lossoridge grandmother up in Boyd, which is the Lossoridge, one of the richest families here in Taylor County, was the richest in Taylor County. And so she cooked for them and my uncle he was a chauffeur for them and things. So things just fit in. And out there, where I grew up in the country, the Whites played together with the Blacks was together, but we didn’t ever hardly feel anything when I was growing up, until we came into town. So because out there if was poor, you’re poor. And it didn’t make any difference whether you was White or Black. And if you was rich, you was rich. So it really didn’t make any difference because everybody was struggling at the same time. But when we came here into the town, that’s when you saw the difference and different things downtown. But here at Jerkins, we didn’t feel that. We didn’t feel that peer pressure. We didn’t have that.

	B:	You were almost shielded from it. F:	Yes.

	B:	By the gate that’s around the school, right? F:	Yes. Right, right.

	B:	And then once you got into the military, did you notice racist issues there?



	F:	Oh yes, yes, yes. There were, because when I went into the military, it was just becoming desegregated. And just a few years and everything. But we still had problems and different things, but they was not tolerated. And one thing about it .

. . but and you respected each other. And if it were, then actions were taken and everything, because we really had to come together and realize that we was all





brothers and we was fighting for the same cause and we could not go into combat hating each other or not protecting each other’s back. Because whatever we went in for, the goal wouldn’t be accomplished, our mission would be lost. So we had to go in thinking about taking care of each other and protecting each other. So that bond grew with time and everything. So we don’t see back when I was there and I became commission officer, I didn’t see men of color. I only see a green uniform. I don’t care what color you are, that uniform is what matters to me. When you put it on, I am Sergeant Frazier, I’m Chief Frazier and I’m not your brother. I’m not your sister. I’m not your mother. I am your Chief. If you love me, you give me one hundred ten percent. And if you hate me, I’m going to expect one hundred ten percent. I’m going to demand it. You’re going to give it to me.

	B:	So was that message well received amongst Black and White soldiers and probably Native American?

	F:	Yes, yes. Well it was better received among Whites than it was Blacks because a lot of the guys resented the fact that they had to do this. They had to really be told a lie, because some of them expect for me to be a little more lenient because of being Black and coming from the South and everything. Hey, so I do have to be so tough, but you have to do what you have to do. And that’s what, like I said before I told my son too, he’s an orthopedic surgeon, but he’s a major in the Air Force and his wife, she’s a lieutenant colonel. She’s a pediatrician. But I told them, “Never forget where you come from. And one thing about it, when you say something mean it. Be truthful.” And that was me. I never tell a man or woman to





do something that I couldn’t do or wouldn’t do. If I tell you to do something, you can believe I know how to do it also.

	B:	Right. That’s good leadership.



	F:	That’s the only way I know how to go. And if I tell you to do it and you didn’t know, I want you to tell me that you don’t know. Don’t tell me you know how to do something and you don’t know how to do it, because what you don’t know can get you killed and get someone else hurt too. Always, it’s wise when a woman or man to always fess up to I don’t know. You’re willing to be taught. Be open. Be honest with yourself. And that’s the first step to your lesson: be honest with yourself. If you don’t know—

	B:	Be strong enough to admit when you’re not strong enough. F:	That’s right, that’s right.

	B:	And so when you went to war, did you feel like your White counterparts or Black counterparts had your back? Did you feel confident in that they had listened to that—

	F:	I really didn’t feel . . . I’m a tell you straight up when I was in Vietnam, I didn’t feel like there was White or Black. With my men, I was the oldest soldier there in my outfit, with the special operations. And it was a rough outfit, but I knew my men. Black or White, yellow, whatever, I knew they had my back. I knew we had each other’s back. We didn’t go in there as color, we went in there as soldiers. And we knew we had each other’s back. And that’s the way we saw each other. We didn’t have to go into battle; they was disciplined that way. We didn’t never have a solider that needed a quarter, needed a dime, needed a dollar, or nothing. We





always took care of each other. We took care of our own. If someone we figure, if we thought someone’s family needed some money or something, he had money from the rest of us. We took up a collection. But we took care of each other. We would not go outside of our operations from help from no one. We was very independent. So therefore, I wasn’t afraid. I didn’t have sense enough to be afraid I guess. But I love my troops and I loved my job and I love my country. And I gave my oath that regardless of what happened, that if it cost my life, that I would lay down on it. And I saw a lot of my fellow brothers, and some of them very close to me here, lay down his life.

	B:	Right. And so this country and your history here and what this country is, is worth a human life? It’s worth your human life?

	F:	Yes it is, yes it is.



	B:	Despite all the troubles that you faced?



	F:	It’s not the country, it’s the people here, it’s the people now. It’s not the country.



The country’s great, the country is great. But we got to, we as leaders gotta make a stand and try to turn things around from a negative to a positive. It happened before. It was much more negative than it is now, back in the day. But just in a different way. But we gotta put God first. We gotta bring morals back.

	U:	Excuse me. Did you get Don registered? F:	Yeah, just a minute. No darling, I didn’t.

	F:	But there’s a lot of things . . . that’s my wife. But there’s a lot of things that we need to work on in order to correct and put our country back on the right track. And I think we are in the process of doing that.





	B:	But it takes effort. It’s not going to just do it on its own. F:	No it’s not. It’s going to take all of us.

	B:	And patience.



	F:	That’s right. It’s going to take us all. And we can’t look at one race and say this of one race and say that. We got to look at this as a whole, as Americans not as race, see? We got to throw that out the window. We’ve got to forget about races. We gotta forget about the Mexican race, the Chicanos. We gotta think about America. We all here. We all Americans. When they shooting at us at out there on the front, they don’t do say, “Well that’s Black over there lets shoot him or that’s a White over there lets shoot him.” They say, “Those Americans coming at us.”

	B:	Well I have a question for you actually. I’ve heard a few things about Vietnam. I spoke with a man, it’s kind of a random story, but I was interviewing another guy whose friend went to Vietnam. And he said that the Vietnamese people would give him the Black Power symbol and that he often heard, “This is not your war go home, go home.” Did you ever hear of anything like that, that the Vietnamese people were very aware of the Civil Rights Movement and things like that?

	F:	Yes, yes, yes they were. And that would hurt us a lot and that hurt me a lot too because, we was not supported. When I came home, I was spat on. We was called baby killers and that really hurt us, because I was doing the things that I was told to do. And I did what I swore I would do and that’s my oath that I gave.

	B:	Your commitment.





	F:	Yes, my commitment to my service. And that’s what those guys over there are doing today. The same thing, just in a different country in a different way. And so I respect them. But it really hurts and it hurt us, by our own country not supporting us and it gave our enemy strength. If you never been in conflict, or never been in the military, a lot of times you don’t realize what harm you’re bringing to your brothers and your sisters by propaganda about talking about the war, about downing the military, by downing your president, by downing the secretary of defense, all these things, negative things that you’re saying against the government is really getting back. You don’t realize—I’m not talking about, I’m just talking about in general. You don’t realize the things that you are saying is open ears to our enemy, giving them strength. Which they can feed on and feed this stuff to others and tell them, “Look, look. See what I mean?” “They don’t even believe in themselves. They’re fighting amongst themselves over there.” And that’s how come they can recruit so much and get people to believe in that cause because of us, the newspaper, the news.

	B:	And it’s so very much in context these days, well especially during the Bush presidency, was that so many people were downing Bush and downing everything about him, not thinking that there are troops that need us to believe, that need us to stop sending these messages.

F:   Right, right. You know one thing about President Bush, even he made mistakes, it was not my place to say that. He was my president. It was not my place to say the negative things about him. He was still my commander-in-chief. Whether I’m in uniform or out of uniform, I’m still military and he’s still my ex-commander-in-





chief. Now Barack Obama is my commander in chief. So it’s not my place to judge. What I think, I keep to myself. I don’t go out and discuss this in open with anyone. But you know, he’s only human. There’s only human. Everybody makes mistakes. Mistakes are being made on the battle field, mistakes are being made everywhere. In our everyday life, we make mistakes. But the thing about it is trying to correct them.

	B:	And it sounds like your life, sort of a theme that runs through your life has been community and unity.

	F:	Yes.



	B:	You’re always on a team, whether your football team, your military team, your team as being an American. And that it all plays into us moving forward together as we have to work together.

	F:	Right and that comes from too mother also making us do positive things like going to church. She made sure I went to church, she made sure I went to Sunday school. And mom always made one thing about it, I had to work, I had to work. I didn’t get nothing free. I had to work for what I wanted. And she said that make me appreciate it. And I did the same thing with my sons. My kids, I didn’t give them anything. They had chores to do, not that I wouldn’t, but I wanted them to understand the value.

	B:	No, that’s an excellent lesson. Well I have to ask you, are your eyes naturally blue?

	F:	Yes they are.



	B:	Because that comes from your grandfather’s side of the family.





	F:	My grandfather’s side. I’ve been asked that many times. B:	They’re like memorizing. A really light-colored blue.

	F:	Yeah, yeah. My eyes been blue all my life and I’ve have people tell me, “You got blue eyes.” One lady says, “I’m White and I don’t have blue eyes.” Yes, they’re blue. They come from my ancestors.

	B:	Well it’s been awesome talking to you. Thank you so much for sharing your story. F:	Thank you. No problem.

	B:	Do you have a deed of gift? I have to get to sign a little release form to say that it’s okay that we put your oral history in the archives at the University of Florida. Is that all right with you? Okay, great. I’ll kind of explain all this stuff that it says. It basically says that you’re gifting us this, your oral history, but that doesn’t mean that you can’t use it. If you ever want to pull it out of the archives and use it in your memoirs, then that’s perfectly fine. It’s not like the University of Florida is the sole proprietor or anything. Just a release to say that we can put it in the—

	F:	And what is this going to be used?



	B:	Just for educational purposes and that’s it. F:	Okay, the University of Florida?

	B:	Mmhm.



	F:	Oh okay.



	B:	And we’ve got a lot of teachers, especially from the counties just south from Alachua County, that have written into our department and said, “We don’t know how to teach Civil Rights. Like White teachers that say, “These books are clearly





wrong and we don’t know how to teach them, so we would love to have some oral histories from African American people to help us teach these classes.”

	F:	Oh okay, not a problem.



	B:	And so they’ll be available for that too. They’ll be available for teachers to use for things like that. But mostly educational purposes.

	F:	Today’s date is the twentieth?



	B:	Twentieth. Cool. Thank you so much. I really appreciate you spending time with me. I’ve enjoyed listening to the stories and hearing your perspective.

	F:	My pleasure.



	B:	My pleasure too. All right and we’ll see you around. F:	And good luck to you.

	B:	Thank you so much. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, October 9, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019