AAHP 127; Miller; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 127 Tara Miller

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Ronald LaFrance on September 3, 2010 19 minutes | 12 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. Tara Miller was born and raised in Philadelphia. She nearly ignored a possible full ride to UF, but her father brought her to visit the campus and she ended up attending. She discusses her family and the ways they supported her ambitions, and the adjustment it took to move to Florida. Ms. Miller’s first semester at UF was the same semester as the 1990 Gainesville murders, and she describes how she experienced that time. She also describes her love of UF football, and some stories of what campus life was like for her overall.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 127

Interviewee: Tara Miller Interviewer: Ronald LaFrance Date: September 3, 2010



	L:	It’s Ronald LaFrance from the UF Oral History Department. I’m here interviewing Tara Mitchell.

	M:	Miller.



	L:	Miller, I’m sorry. Just going to get this started. Today is September 3, 2010, I think. When did you attend UF?

	M:	I came twenty years ago, this week really. I started fall of 1990. L:	When were you born and where were you born?

	M:	I was born November 17, 1972 and I was born in Philadelphia. I’m from Philadelphia.

	L:	What attracted you to come to UF?



	M:	Actually it’s a funny story. I didn’t apply to UF. I guess I can say I was a pretty good student. My mother and I were going through acceptance letters and schools that were giving me scholarships. I was separating things out when my father came in and starting going through the trash can of the ones I didn’t open. He said, “Can I open this?” I said, “Sure.” He opened it and it was a letter from the University of Florida offering me a full ride. He said, “Well why don’t we go to Florida during your spring break and just check out the school?” I said, “Okay.” I came down here and I immediately fell in love with the campus. Being from Philadelphia, I fell in love with the weather. I met John Boatwright, who was in charge of the program. It was like a presidential—I’m going to forget the official name—it was like a presidential scholarship. Anyway, I talked to him and everybody else kind of fell by the wayside and I decided to become a Gator.





	L:	What did your parents do for a living?



	M:	My mother at the time—I’m from Philadelphia—she was in charge of all the libraries in the West Philadelphia section of the city. They called her an Area Administrator. My father worked for a Ford truck dealership in South Jersey. So that’s what they did.

	L:	So both of your parents were professionals? M:	Yes, yes.

	L:	That’s good. I’m guessing you weren’t the first one to go to college in your family or were you the first one?

	M:	I’m an only child, but my mother went to college; my father did not. My mother has a master’s degree.

	L:	Oh wow. So education was strong in your household?



	M:	Yes and she was a children’s librarian before I was born and worked her way up through the library system.

	L:	That’s cool. So what was your first impression of Gainesville when you came to go to school here?

	M:	Like I said, growing up in the city, it was just like wow this is really the stereotypical college campus. It’s a lot of trees, grass, and it’s hot. I had never been so hot before in my life. Because once I accepted I came down, I guess it’s July when they do freshmen orientation. My mother came with me and it was one hundred and fifteen degrees. My mom even said to me, “You don’t have to go here if you don’t want to.” [Laughter] And I said, “I promise to never have to go to summer school because I am not going to be in Gainesville in the summer.” It





was just a beautiful campus at first. It’s weird because it was twenty years ago, and that first fall were the murders. When my parents were deciding on schools, their main concern was crime and everything when compared to Philadelphia, Gainesville was—Mr. Boatwright was like, “We have a problem with bicycle thefts.” And I remember my dad laughing. And then that unfortunate event happened. I grew up pretty fast being an only child, and being almost one thousand miles away from home. And I didn’t know anyone at the time. They cancelled classes for a little bit and I went home. But I immediately came back. Cause I was like, “I’ve got a full scholarship and I want to finish at Florida.” It was just an interesting time to start college life and to start growing up.

	L:	How was campus like during the murders?



	M:	It was weird. When you heard about the first incident, I just kinda was like, “Well that’s the news. We kinda hear that at home.” You weren’t hearing details. In fact, by the time my parents had driven back to Philadelphia, I think there had been three victims by then. Then it was kind of like, “Okay what’s going on?” My two roommates, I didn’t know them at the time, but it was kind of ironic that we were all from the same part of the country. One was from Long Island, New York; the other was from Boston. So we already had a different mindset of locking doors, locking windows and things like that. It brought us together quickly, because we didn’t know anybody. I just remember the uneasiness. And it just felt sad, because when I first got here, it just seemed to be such a free and easy campus and now it was more of like the innocence was lost. It kinda felt like what we deal with in the city in terms of violence and crime and all that stuff.





	L:	So basically you came to Gainesville for the country style life? M:	I wouldn’t even call it country style life. [Laughter]

	L:	Like country college style life?



	M:	But it was a different lifestyle. I remember speaking with my parents and my mom was like, “This is a great opportunity for you to see a different way of living. And if you’re a city kid, you come home, but at least you will have experienced four years of living somewhere else.” Now I must say, I went back to Philly because I do like the city life. But I did enjoy my four years here.

	L:	So how did you come up with living expenses besides tuition, since you had a full ride?

	M:	With my scholarship I was truly blessed. Until my senior year, my scholarship covered tuition, room and board, and book money. My parents sent money. I think my senior year they wrote me a check for one thousand dollars because I was living in Yulee where they’re all singles. I had been living in Yulee since the second semester of my sophomore year. The rents went up. But other than that, I truly, truly was blessed in terms of my package and what it covered here.

	L:	That’s cool. What did you do for fun here?



	M:	I’m a football junkie, that’s why I’m down here this weekend. But I remember when I first got down here, I wasn’t familiar with SEC football. We grew up with Penn State. I’m Catholic so it’s Notre Dame. I wasn’t really familiar with the Gators. My first dorm was Tolbert. So we were basically across the street. I remember calling my father saying, “Why is their stadium larger than Veteran’s Stadium, where the Eagles play? I don’t get it.” That first Thursday night when





people were bringing in their trailers, I’m like, “What in the world is going on?” My freshmen year was Spurrier’s first year. It was just like the beginning of this dynasty, so it was really exciting. Ever since I was a kid, I’ve been a sports junkie. I’m an aspiring sports writer at home. So that was my fun. Just hanging out. It’s kinda funny, I’m not a drinker. [Laughter] Which helped me get out on time. Finished my degree in four years. I loved the sports. I was an Alpha sweetheart way back in the day because I wanted to step. Unfortunately when I was here, the AKAs were off the yard. So they weren’t an option.

	L:	Are there any other fun stories you can tell me from your sorority days?



	M:	I don’t know if you guys still do it, but there was the Alpha sweet rendezvous in November, every November, and that was a step show. My birthday is in November, so it was my birthday weekend.

	L:	I think they changed that to the Florida Invitational Step Show.



	M:	Oh okay. I’m an old head. That step show was a great weekend. Just practicing in the garage behind Broward Hall, getting ready for the step show, that was a lot of fun. I just loved hanging out here with all of my friends and going to parties. I’m drawing a blank at the halls where the parties were. But you had to go under the tunnel.

	L:	By Norman?



	M:	Yes. [Laughter]



	L:	They let you have parties on campus back then? M:	Yes, they don’t have parties on campus?

	L:	[Shakes head no].





	M:	Wow? Really?



	L:	Not that I know of.



	M:	Okay. I didn’t have a car, so I don’t know how I would have got around. L:	Did you have a particular favorite restaurant here or anything?

	M:	Steak and Shake. L:	Really?

	M:	[Laughter] We don’t have Steak and Shake up North. [Laughter] When I come to Gainesville, it’s my first stop.

	L:	Twenty years doesn’t seem like such a long time ago to me the [19]90s. Since you’ve come back, is there anything different that you’ve noticed on campus?

M:  There’s been so much development. It’s still a beautiful campus. This building wasn’t here. That’s what I’ve noticed the most, just the new buildings. But the school is growing.

L:   Does it seem like the atmosphere has changed or anything like that?



	M:	I haven’t had the chance to walk around campus yet because we just got here today. It seems to feel the same. I mean it’s the day before a football game, so I think no matter what, the day before the season opener it’s going to have the same buzz around campus.

	L:	Do you have one major memory that you remember from going to school here?



	M:	It was the night of that step show. [Laughter] We stepped for almost twenty minutes; that’s a long time. The headache I had afterwards! That was a great memory. I started out as a Math major and ended up as a Statistics major. I think it was my sophomore year. Some girl lost her snake in one of the buildings I had





a class in. I called my mother and told her, “I’m not going to class till they find that snake.” It was like, “I don’t know what these people in Florida are thinking.” Somebody lost their snake. It was like three days before they found him. It was a lot of crazy, just your typical college stories. I remember somebody released crickets down the hallway in Broward. It was like something out of the Bible.

	L:	Your time in Gainesville, do you think that changed you in anyway?



	M:	I think I definitely grew up being this far away from home and from my parents and with the different situations that went on at school. I am an only child, so some people could think I had a sheltered upbringing. But I was on my own and had to make do. I think I did pretty well. I’m still in one piece.

	L:	Were there any incidents here on campus like racial incidents?



	M:	Not personally. I do remember—now I’m trying to remember what year. I think it was my junior year. I’m trying to think if that was the year we wanted to have Coretta Scott King come to speak. There was an issue where money was given to the skydiving team but the Black Student Union couldn’t get enough money to have her come speak for Black History Month. And I remember there was a sit-in and unfortunately I didn’t take part in it because I had a Calculus midterm the next day. Even my roommates were like, “You need to go study. We’ll go to the sit-in.” Cause I was living in Broward—that was my sophomore year. That would’ve been like [19]91, [19]92. That’s the only thing that I recall. It was interesting to meet people at eighteen and nineteen, White students that had never met a Black student before. I remember a girl named Marla who was sweet as pie. There was no animosity. She just said, “You’re the first Black person that





I’ve ever really known.” Coming from Philly, you basically meet everybody in kindergarten. I was also fascinated by the number of African American students that hadn’t met a Puerto Rican before. I was like, “Really?” That was kind of interesting.

	L:	So campus was like a melting pot you’re saying?



	M:	I think so. I just was fascinated that to me by the time you’re seventeen or eighteen, you would’ve had these kinds of interactions already. It was interesting hearing about the towns that other people were from, how small they were, and how everybody was the same. Coming from a city where everybody is different, it was pretty interesting. I remember my roommate at the time and the guy I was dating, they came up to Philly the summer after my freshmen year. We have a Greek picnic in Philadelphia. Now both of them are African American and they were like, “I’ve never seen so many Black people in my life.” [Laughter] Those stories were funny.

	L:	So you said there was a sit-in?



	M:	Yeah and I am blanking on all the details. But I know it had something to do with getting money for the Black Student Union. I remember the skydiving team got money for like twelve people to jump out of a plane or something.

	L:	Did anything ever come out of that sit-in?



	M:	I can’t remember. If you find somebody that was around between [19]90 and [19]94, maybe they’ll remember, especially if they attended. But I can’t remember. I just remember I didn’t go because I had to study.





	L:	That’s interesting. That’s the first time I ever heard of that so I’m gonna mark that.

	M:	I had to study. And my roommate went. And I wish I had Tangela Boyd’s phone number, because she’ll probably remember more than me. I remember they went to this sit-in. It didn’t blow up into like a major thing.

	L:	Did you have any mentors here or anything like that, a particular teacher?



	M:	John Boatwright really helped me, especially that freshman year when they cancelled classes when the murders first happened. And getting back into school and just figuring what to do since, ‘cause I didn’t know anyone. He basically kept tabs on me my whole time that I was down here. I think if I had known then what I know now, I think I would’ve been more diligent in finding a mentor or sticking with that counselor and asking the right questions. But I didn’t know. This is such a huge school. As much as I love Florida, I do see how you can just kind of get lost in the crowd and become a number. I didn’t have like one particular professor that maybe I kept a relationship with throughout my four years here. I do think that’s unfortunate.

	L:	You said you lived on campus. I know they have a cleaning person every so often. Were you close with your cleaning person?

	M:	This must be new. [Laughter] I don’t remember seeing a regular cleaning person. L:	Like a janitor to clean up the dorms.

	M:	I’m sure we did, but I didn’t know anyone by name. I just remembered I would never stay here on Homecoming, because the bathrooms are disgusting.

	L:	You didn’t participate in the Homecoming events?





	M:	I stayed for Homecoming my freshmen year and it was just too much. For Homecoming, I would either go home to Philly or we’d go to Tallahassee to go to FAM and hang out there.

	L:	Do you see any differences between Tallahassee and Gainesville when you went to FAM?

	M:	I mean, there it was just more Black people. [Laughter] This is a funny story. I guess it’s just the naivety. I came here being a seventeen-year-old and you just think everybody is the same. As long as there are Black people here, they’re just the same. I remember I got down here and your music was different. It was just a different world coming down here. For me Tallahassee was the same as Gainesville, it was just more people there. It was the same, to me, weird bass music. “Why don’t you play hip-hop?” [Laughter] And what does “finna” mean?

What is that?



	L:	What were the major differences between the northern culture and the southern culture when you came here that you noticed?

	M:	I move faster. [Laughter] My friends thought I was rude, that I walk too fast. I talk too fast. Everyone’s nice; it’s a kinder, gentler place. I still had my Philly edge and I remember my parents had to lecture me that you do speak to people even if you don’t know them. I’m like, “I don’t know her.” [Laughter] But in the comparisons, it was all good.

	L:	So you said in [19]91 you were on campus here? M:	I came in [19]90, yeah.





	L:	Did you know about Black Awareness Movement? It’s called BAM. The Black Awareness Movement.

	M:	I remember BAM, but I don’t really remember all that they did. I was studying. [Laughter] I must admit when my counselor told me my major was really a five year major, I said, “Well I only have money for four years.” I hung out and partied, but I was really studying.

	L:	Do you have any regrets here?



	M:	Sometimes I do wish—I think I had enough fun, but I kinda wish I did get more involved in different activities instead of sticking my head in those statistics books all of the time. That I would have done differently. At the time, the AKAs weren’t on the yard. I really wish they had been. I would have attempted to pledge and that would have been a different experience in college. But for the most part I really did enjoy it. It was definitely a learning experience living in a different part of the country and living on my own. I liked it. It’s great to be a Florida Gator.

	L:	That was my next question. One more question. How do you feel when you come back to alumni things or is this your first time?

	M:	My first time was two years ago. It really is a nostalgic feeling. It’s funny when you’re younger, like I remember my senior year I was ready to go. I was ready to go home and I missed Philly. And now this feels like home. I do miss it. I miss just the college atmosphere, the southern cooking. I think as you get older, you start to appreciate the things you did in your youth.

	L:	Is there anything else you’d like to add on?



	M:	I wonder what life is going to be like without Tim Tebow. [Laughter]





	L:	Okay. Thank you very much.



	M:	Thank you, I hope I was helpful. L:	You were.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Anupa Kotipoyina, October 12, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019