AAHP 146A; King; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 146A Roger King

African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Christina Locke on November 10, 2010 2 hours, 4 minutes | 50 pages



Abstract: Roger King was born and raised in High Springs, Florida, and attended Douglass High School in that town until tenth grade, when he started at Mebane High School in Alachua, Florida. He describes it as exciting because Douglass was so small that the library was also a classroom and the bell-ringing room, so the additional resources and space at Mebane were very welcome. Mr. King graduated in 1959, only the third graduating class from A.L. Mebane High. He describes his experiences at the school, and also talks about segregation and its effect on his life and on public spaces and facilities, including schools. He talks about the teachers’ philosophies and approaches in Mebane, and some of his favorite teachers. He also talks about his wife and how they met, and talks about some of his work history after graduating, including service in the US Army, and later working as a surgical nurse after obtaining his Nursing degree from the University of Florida. He also participated in the Civil Rights Movement in Gainesville, Florida, and discusses some of those activities.





[Keywords: African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Mebane High School; Douglass High School; Civil Rights Movement]





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 146A

Interviewee: Roger King Interviewer: Christina Locke Date: November 10, 2011



	L:	Okay. This is Christina Locke. Today is November 10th, 2010. I’m interviewing Roger King. We are at the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida. Mr. King, when and where were you born?

	K:	I was born July 7th, 1941, in High Springs, Florida.



	L:	Okay. Let me actually get one more thing. Can you tell me your address so we can—?

	K:	[Gives address]



	L:	Okay. So, what were your parents’ names and what did they do?



	K:	My mother’s name was Thelma; she was just a regular housewife. My dad’ name was Robert; he was a brakeman for the Atlantic Coastline Railroad.

	L:	Okay. So you lived in High Springs your whole time growing up? K:	Mmhm. Yeah, actually I lived there until 1971.

	L:	And so what, I guess thinking back to like your childhood, what was a typical day like for you?

	K:	Hm. Well, typical day. Well, way back when, I had lots of friends—lots of playmates—and when we weren’t in school, we were always doing things. In those days, we made just about everything that we played with—toys. No computers of course, and no this, that, and the other. But it was kind of fun. We made our skateboards, we made our kites, and things like that. So, a typical non- school day—with good behavior—I’d get a chance to maybe go and visit a couple of my friends, or they would meet with us. It was always something ongoing to do. It was playing ball or different things like that.





	L:	What elementary school did you go to?



	K:	I went to the Douglass High School in High Springs. This was the Black school on the east side of town. And in those days, it went from first through twelfth grades. Some years later, a kindergarten department was added to the school. So proximity-wise, I may have lived approximately two, two and a half miles from the school.

	L:	Did you walk or—? K:	We walked.

	L:	Through the snow and the rain— [Laughter] K:	No, not much snow around here.

	L:	Okay. Did you have any brothers or sisters? K:	I had one brother. Older—

	L:	Older brother?



	K:	Brother. Uh-huh.



	L:	How much older was he?



	K:	Four years. Four years older. Mmhm. L:	What was his name?

	K:	Earl.



	L:	In elementary school, what was your school day like, and what were your classmates like?

	K:	Well, you just got to know all of your classmates. I came from the west side of town, and of course, school was across town as we referred to it, which was on the east side. So, you get to mingle with all of your east side friends. There must





have been about twenty of us, maybe, in our class. Our school day was—if I’m making no mistake, we started school about 8:45, and our school day ended at 3:45. It was a small school, just a community school. And of course, we had our one through twelfth grade teachers and all that sort of thing.

	L:	So, were you in classes with just people of your same age or— K:	Mmhm.

	L:	So they divided them that way, okay.



	K:	We never started where—well, you know, when we got up into high school of course, start changing classes and all that sort of thing. Mmhm.

	L:	So then when did you— that was a first through twelfth grade school, Douglass right?

	K:	Mmhm.



	L:	So when did you get the opportunity to go to another school?



	K:	Okay now, I also need to point out that the teachers, our teachers, knew our parents. So you kind of had to be on you p’s and q’s. You didn’t misbehave in school because your teacher would be right there. But to answer your question, I was at Douglass up to the tenth grade. That’s the time that Mebane was built, in the school year 1956-57. So, I went to Mebane during my tenth grade year. Of course, Mebane was A.L. Mebane High School then; it’s now a middle school.

And we were bussed there. There were two buses that went from High Springs daily that took us to school at Mebane. Bus number 90 and bus number 26 were the buses. That was exciting, because of course Mebane, the surrounding communities—which included Newberry, High Springs, Alachua, Lacrosse, and a





few other little scattered areas—are the communities that comprised the school. So, we were in a whole different setting then, because there were a lot of students. I think about thirteen hundred students the very first year; so you know, that was big for us, having come from our little school and all. So my first year at Mebane was my tenth grade year.

	L:	When you found out that you were going to be going to a new school, how did you feel about that?

	K:	There was a lot of excitement, and you kind of—well, we were excited, and our teachers made it very exciting for us, because they said that we would have a lot more advantages at the school than we had at our little school at Douglass. To give you an example, at Douglass, the library was a classroom, and it was a multi-functional room. And it was used as, like I say, library, classroom, and the bell-ringing room, and just on and on and on. So we were kind of psyched up to see what that new school was going to be all about, and to meet new people.

Some of our teachers would tell us, especially when they didn’t think that we were doing our best, “You know those students down there at Mebane? They’re just going to run all over you, because you’re wasting your time and you’re blah- blah-blah.” And you know, up to a point we believed that, and of course you would shape up and get back in line, but much to our surprise when we got to Mebane you know, this was the thing that was ringing in some of our ears, especially mine: [whispering] “These students are going to be way advanced to us.” But that wasn’t the case; that wasn’t the case at all, as far as I’m concerned. We outshined all of them.





	L:	How many—some of your classmates also went with you to Mebane? K:	Oh, yes. All of us that were in the class at Douglass, we all went.

	L:	Do you know how many people that might’ve been?



	K:	About that time, we should have had about—I’m trying to do a visual in my headcount—let’s just say there were about ten of us.

	L:	And so then Douglass—what happened, did that just?



	K:	Now, Douglass for a while functioned as a school. A middle school I suppose, if you will. It stayed open, it just only went up to the eight grade maybe, or ninth grade? Now of course, after integration, it functioned as a middle school until it was closed down. So that should have been somewhere around 1970. Up in there.

	L:	And so when you went to Mebane, was that when integration came to this area? K:	No. No, no, no, no. I never went to high school in an integrated situation. As far as Mebane and this county is concerned, the integration didn’t begin in the

schools ‘til the school year [19]69-[19]70. That’s when the high schools—well, the schools were fully integrated then. You know, they tried a whole bunch of other things, and finally they just had to go on and do what they were supposed to do. They tried a lot of things before actually integrating the schools; you know, they tried this, and that, and the other. As far as I was concerned, it was just trying to appease people. But finally, “No, we’re going to integrate the schools now.” I went to school under the situation of “separate but equal.” But, I don’t know how much you need in your interview, or these kinds of things whether they are appropriate for your interview, but schools were everything but equal in those





days. Everything but equal. So, I was at Mebane for tenth, eleventh, and twelfth grade. I graduated high school in 1959. I was the third graduating class from Mebane School. The very first graduation class was 1957. So, it was a great experience for us; the whole experience of being at a new school, for one thing, because the students were very instrumental in selecting the mascot, and doing your alma mater, and all of these things that come along with a new school.

	L:	All right, sounds fun!



	K:	It was fun. And I was active in student government. I guess I kind of dabbled around in just about everything that was going on. Couldn’t play much football and stuff like that, but I dabbled around in about everything I could get my hands on.

	L:	So were you like an officer in student government or did you—?



	K:	I was a treasurer for one year, and something else another year. I think it was parliamentarian something, maybe parliamentary.

	L:	Were there any other clubs that you were involved in?



	K:	We didn’t have very many clubs during those early years. We had of course, the dramatics club, and I was a part of that and a few other clubs around. But you know nowadays, you got clubs from A to Z. We didn’t have quite so many in those days. Now when I graduated from Mebane, that could really be considered the early classes because I was the very third class that graduated from Mebane.

	L:	Did you guys have prom—junior, senior prom?



	K:	Oh, yes. Yes we had junior and senior prom, and that was always an exciting time. I just couldn’t wait to get to be a junior and [inaudible 15:01] a senior. It was





great. And we also—the high school at Douglass had proms, and down in the lower grades we knew what was going on, because there’d be so much excitement going on when they were preparing for the prom. The prom was—the auditorium was always decorated. There was the prom setting in there, so whatever theme you know the class chose, they would decorate accordingly. And the prom was more or less a community thing in those days, because you could actually invite your parents and things like that, so it was one of the social functions of the year. Because you know, people got all dressed up, they’re going and have fun at the prom. So my very first prom at Mebane my first year, I worked for that class. Just as a server and stuff like that, so I got a little taste of it that year, so I was ready for our senior prom.

	L:	Do you remember the theme?



	K:	An evening in paradise. Yes. Of course we decorated; we had an island theme. It was in the gym. And you know, you had your own palmetto fronds and your streamers. Oh, we thought it was beautiful! And your hanging-down lights, and your balloons. And we worked real hard. There were groups of us that took agriculture; we went out and cut palmetto fronds for a whole day. But it was just exciting. You know it was exciting, because in those days the prom was towards the end of school, so you had a lot of excitement for more than one reason. [Laughter] This is our prom and school will soon be over!

	L:	Now, did you guys take dates as—



	K:	Oh, yes! I remember my date for our high school prom. My uncle let me borrow his car. My girlfriend at the time lived in Alachua, and he let me—oh, I just





sucked up to him, because I knew this prom was coming. And he was very reluctant. He didn’t know. But my aunt, his wife, of course she was on my side. She says “Oh, let him use the car.” So as luck would have it, after the prom was over, and then you—I think we all went somewhere for a little after-prom party. But anyway—yes, we did, we came up to High Springs to an after-prom party.

And I’m taking my girlfriend back home, and she lived on a dirt road. And when I had left her at home, and on my way back, I’m meeting a car here coming up this road. And this car was just not going to share that road with me. So I got stuck over in the sand. And by this time, it’s about one-ish in the morning and I just had to leave my uncle’s car there overnight. So knew I was going to be in—I was in big trouble with him, especially. I didn’t do any damage to the car, it was just stuck in the sand and there was nothing I could do. So I did call my neighbor, and he drove from High Springs to Alachua to get me. And next day, it was a school day, my agriculture teacher—we had trucks and chains and ropes and all that— and he took me down with some more friends of mine and it was just like— [snaps fingers]—pull that car right on out from there. I drove the car on home to my uncle at work, who was at work at the time. So, that didn’t go over too well.

But I says, “Uncle Wallace, it’s no damage, I didn’t do anything.” But he just didn’t want to understand that, he just says, “Oh, you didn’t have to get that car stuck!” But, anyway. So, that was fun, up to that point. Mmhm.

	L:	[Laughter] What were your aunt and uncle’s names? K:	Wallace and Hattie.

	L:	King?





	K:	Wilson.



	L:	And you said he was at work, did he own a business, or— K:	He worked at a cleaners in High Springs. Mmhm.

	L:	Okay. You talked about taking agriculture classes? Was that sort of your focus, or did you—?

	K:	No, it wasn’t our focus. It was just something that was offered. That was something that was offered in both the White and the Black schools at the time. However, they weren’t called the same. We would be the “New Farmers of America.” You get my drift? And Home Ec would be the—they had another title also. So I mean, you got FFA and stuff like that now, but we were the New Farmers.

	L:	So like they—



	K:	We were not the Future Farmers.



	L:	Future Famers would have been in the White school? K:	In the White school.

	L:	And then, you were called the “New Farmers.” K:	New Farmers.

	L:	Really?



	K:	Mmhm. There was separation in absolutely everything. There are lots of stories, because when I was in school, you didn’t know what a new book looked like. We never got new books, we got old hand-me-downs. You know, I know you’ve seen some movies depicting these kinds of things, so actually you can believe those things. I lived those things. Well, we lived those things, you know. In elementary





school, one of the very first things that we would do at the first of the year—which we got all the torn up, raggedy books—we were taught how to make book covers. So we made book covers, and made those books look nice. My goodness, you could make a book cover out of a grocery sack, paper sack; and then, in the arts class they would let you just decorate your covers. So we made them look good. They were a mess when we would get them; stuff was all written in them, and a lot of derogatory things were written in them and stuff like that, but we made do with them.

	L:	So were there, like, racial comments in the books? K:	Oh, yes. Oh my!

	L:	Were they from—



	K:	Well, we don’t know whether—well I don’t know whether our books came from the High Springs schools over to us, or whether they were countywide. I just don’t know. But I’m thinking that they came from the High Springs school. They knew that we would be getting the books, you know, stuff like that. So we all had hand-me-down, always hand-me-down material. But “separate but equal.” See?

	L:	Right. And you mentioned that a little bit before. I’d like to hear, you know, kind of just some stories that stick out.

	K:	Well we definitely separate, but there was absolutely no equality. None whatsoever. I am sure that you must have seen by now the Memphis—what is that, the Memphis Eight? All these things when those kids were trying to integrate the schools, and all that sort of thing. It was just a mess in those days, quite frankly. I was kind of glad I was done with school, because some of the





things that would happen could anger you just a bit. Now, Santa Fe High School, that school year [19]69-[19]70, that was a tumultuous year. They never had a— for the longest time, they never had a full day of school, because the kids just rebelled; they didn’t want the Black kids up there. And of course, the Black kids didn’t want to be there. It was a mess there at that school. It was a mess in the schools here in Gainesville. Gainesville High School, it had to be closed down.

You know, they would try, and then something would break out, and you just have to close the school down. And parents would come and get their kids, and things like that. So it took a while for those kinds of things to work themselves out.

	L:	When you in school, what kind of interaction did you have with White students at all?

	K:	None whatsoever. In High Springs, like I say, we walked to school, and we more or less had a delegated side of the street that we walked on to school. Now, mind you, your parents, they had schooled you from home, because if you went a certain way, you were going to have to go through town to get over to the school. Your parents had told you now, “You just mind your business and go on through there.” We didn’t have very many incidents along those lines. I had one, and we just laugh about that now. Harold Lee was a friend of mine, and we were walking home from school that day, and we decided—as boys would do, we decided we would just change our route that day. We were not going to go that road, but we were going to come up on the main road. And we were going—and we were just horseplaying all the way. And by the time I got downtown—there was a service





station there. In those days, it was called Skeet’s Corner. Well, Skeet was a woman that operated that service station and all. If you ever go to High Springs, now it’s the Great Outdoors.

	L:	Okay, yeah. I know where you’re talking about.



	K:	That restaurant there. Yeah. That once upon a time was a little—and when we got there, Harold and I had just been horseplaying, so I was thirsty. And I wanted me some water. Well we knew full well, now, that you cannot drink out the White fountain. And there was none for us. So, I didn’t see Skeet sitting out there, as we called her. And I says, [whisper] “I’m going sneak up and get me a drink of water.” And you know, Harold says, [whisper] “I don’t know, I wouldn’t do that.” I say, [whisper] “Well, we don’t see her.” So I was just going tippy-toe on up there. There was a little crate turned upside down that bottles fit in—in those days, most of our drinks came in bottles—and there was one for little children, little White children, that they could be high enough that they could get a drink. So you know, I stepped up there, and I’m thinking that it’s all going well, and I push this thing back. And that water, it almost got to my lips before Skeet did. She just— next thing I knew, I was airborne. She just grabbed me by the collar, and she was holding me up—‘course, I was a little thing. Skeet was a big woman. She says— you know, she’s scolding me, “You know that you’re not supposed to be using this fountain,” and blah blah blah. And oh, shoot—and all the time, she’s holding me up like this! And I’m fighting, and I’m telling her “Let go of me! Let go of me!

Put me down!” So, she put me down when she got ready. So when she put me— she slammed me—down, she says, “Now, if you want you some water, you go





over there and you get you one of them bottles.” And I say “I won’t drink out of nasty bottle.” And you know, she, “Boy, you sassing me?” And—[snaps fingers]

—of course, we took out running. Well, my uncle that worked downtown that I told you about, to the cleaners, well Skeet knew who I was. She knew Wallace was my uncle. Shoot! By the time I could get home, my momma already knew about that, because she had gone over to that cleaners and she had told Uncle Wallace that I had given her some sass. That I was trying to drink out of the White fountain. And a lot of people, Black people in those days, were labeled as “Uncle Toms,” but they were not Uncle Toms. They had to do a lot of things that they did to protect us. Absolutely. Because I called my Uncle Wallace a Uncle Tom. I say, “Oh, you old Uncle Tom!” Of course, I didn’t call him that to his face. But, you know, as I got older, I realized my Uncle Wallace was just trying to protect us, keep us out of trouble. Because I came through an era where there was nothing very much would be done if something happened to you. It was just that—so you knew those things, and you kind of lived accordingly. I suppose I was always—I didn’t try to put myself in difficult situations, I never did, but if I got in a situation, I had assured my mom that I will defend myself. And I assured my Uncle Wallace, and my daddy, and all of them that I will defend myself. And of course my Uncle Wallace assured me that I was going to have a very short life. [Laughter] So, that didn’t work out. So, we came through all of those kinds of times, you know? There was this one store owner in High Springs in particular, that when we walked through town going home, we would be walking, he’d just stand in his doorway. He says “Now, you little pickaninnies just keep right on





moving.” And of course, we’d look at him and just laugh, and make faces at him, and just run on and go on home. This was our way of rebelling. Kids have some little ways that they can rebel and get away with it, you know. But no, things were just kind of rotten in those days. Which puzzles me is, how can the kids go to school today and not have so many problems? But it was just a way of life then. And people fought to maintain that way of life, whether it was right or wrong.

They were used to it, and they were just not going to give, and that was the way that it was. You just had to have some convictions of your own that, “No, I’m just not going to settle for this,” and this, and that, and the other, and the blah blah blah. My mother did housework for people—for families. She usually worked for, stayed with a family for a long time. But we never were allowed to go to that front door. To that house, as a matter of fact. This one lady, she was a nurse, and my mom had told me to stop by on my way home from school. She wanted to send some things on with me. And of course I just went to the front door with a note.

And Ms. Parker just did came to the door, and says, “Boy, what do you want?” I says “Well, I’m here to see my mom.” And she informed me, not so politely, that “If you want to see your momma, you go around to the back door.” So those— you know that was the norm then. The norm was going to the back of the restaurant to get your food, if you wanted that sort of thing. I came through the times when motels and hotels were not open to you. You’re so young, I suppose you would have to just read about these kinds of things.

	L:	[Laughter] You can tell me. That’s how I learn!





	K:	You might see in some movie, but I actually lived those sort of things. Absolutely could not go into the front of a restaurant, anything like that. You know, I had some experiences. Because like I say, I was pretty well made up my mind, especially when I got to be a grown man. And there’re just some things that I’m not going to stand for. Of course, I didn’t. And my Uncle Wallace kept warning the family that we all would be killed during the night. [Laughter] Some night. He says, “That boy’s just going”—but my grandmother even braved up, and she just had to tell him—which, that was his momma—she says, “Oh Wallace, leave the boy alone. Just leave him alone, he’s causing no harm to anybody.” So I could just go on with incidents that happened, but they all would be kind of negative and I’m sure you don’t want the entire interview to be about negativity. So I’ll just answer—I’m trying to answer what you ask me.

	L:	Oh, no. If you—I mean, you know all the answers! [Laughter] And I think those stories are really valuable.

	K:	Well, those were just the times. You know, we were bussed right passed Santa Fe High School to go to Mebane. We were bussed passed there. And now you hear so much—parents just get all riled up if their kids have to be bussed one block where they don’t think that they need to be going. And you look and you see the before and the after, and you know, we didn’t have a choice. I don’t think that we should’ve had to been bussed right past Santa Fe to go to another, at least four miles, up to Mebane School. Our schools were not equally equipped. In our sciences and biology labs at Mebane School, all of the stuff was there, set up: the faucets and the sinks and all; nothing worked. Nothing there. None of it





was hooked and worked. So, when it came time to, you wanted to—we had a segment where we dissected frogs and things like that; you didn’t have any gas and all these kinds of things. You didn’t have it. So, you made do with that. And we know that the other schools, the White schools, had everything that they needed. We knew that. Anyway, still, going to Mebane was a step from Douglass. We loved Douglass, and we still have a Douglass alumni that, a lot of them are dead and gone, but every two years, they have a reunion. And the school is gone now. It’s totally—they just tore it down. Which was a waste as far as I was concerned, because it was very good school. Beautiful school, as far as we were concerned. They just flattened it. The only thing that’s left, they left the cafeteria. That today functions as a daycare center in High Springs. Here at Mebane, it’s a whole different story. You still—you’re around all different kinds of classmates, and although we had a rivalry of sorts going on because High Spring kids? We were just going to be tops, that was just all, that’s it. That was the bottom line. So, we had a running rivalry with the Alachua and all these kids—a friendly sort, if you know what I mean, of rivalry. Sometimes when we’re talking now, you know, “You remember when blah blah blah,?” But so, we had lot of— the thing that I suppose was so exciting to us is, when we changed classes, we actually had another classroom to go to at Mebane. English. Math. You know, History. Typing. Home Ec. Agriculture. You actually had those things that you could go to. When I was telling you that at Douglass, there was one room that had all of those functions, and the bell ringing room—in my early years, going to school, we had handheld bells! [Laughter] You say “Hoo, I’m talking to an antique





person here!” But we had handheld bells. Now the bell that brought you in in the morning, it was a big bell—and when I say “big bell,” I mean perhaps that big. It’s a hand bell. Harruum-du-du! And somebody would stand up, and they’d ring that thing. Now you didn’t enter the school until that bell sounded. And you entered school by class levels. Grade levels. The elementary school entered from the south end, and high school entered from the north end. But you did not enter that school until that bell went. And like I say, you lined up, and you went to your classroom orderly. And of course, teachers wanted to maintain that order all throughout that class, but you know how that worked. [Laughter] We had lots of different things that kids don’t have these days, because we did have devotion in the morning: we all had a little song that we would sing. And it amazes my wife, Sarah, because I can remember some of those songs that I sang in first, second, third grade and all through elementary. She says, “How in the world?” I say, “Yeah, can remember that, and I can’t remember what happened just a few minutes ago.” We would do a song, and we always did the pledge of allegiance. And that was the way or day began in school.

	L:	So, were your devotionals like Bible verse devotionals or—



	K:	Sometimes you would do a Bible verse, and sometimes somebody would just do a real little short prayer. Sometime even the teacher would do just a little short prayer. And you’d be done with that, and now you were down to business. So in one class in particular, my third grade teacher— her name was Ms. Coleman— and, oh, I thought Ms. Coleman was the prettiest woman in the world! And she lived just up the block from us at home, so I was always trying to sneak a little bit





past their house so I could see Ms. Coleman. But she had in her room a grooming corner. Now you just come in there all disheveled, and all this sort of thing, you were going to the grooming corner and you were going to get yourself put back in order. And if you didn’t think that you could do it, then she would help you out just a little bit. Boys come into school—you know I look at my grand-boys now, I have two grandsons, and you know they run out and they say that they’re ready? I say, “You haven’t brushed your hair yet.” “Oh that’s right!” Well, if they were going to Ms. Coleman, you’d step up in her class and your hair is not all brushed, all combed, you went up to that grooming corner and you did it. So you know, there were these kinds of things. And I can remember having a big argument—not an argument, but a disagreement—with my sister-in-law. They moved down to Satellite Beach when their children were very young and when their children were going to the school. And they were visiting once upon a time, and she was saying that the schools were so different down there in Satellite Beach, and how all of them, the kids, they went to a integrated situation. But she says, “You know they have—sometimes it’s a little difficult for us as parents to kind of just get the hang of it. Ingrid was talking about phonics the other day.

Well, I don’t remember any phonics when I was in school.” Because my sister-in- law and I, until high school, we went to different schools. But I told her, “Sure, I remember phonics. Ms. Coleman, she didn’t call them ‘phonics,’ she say it’s ‘our sounds.’ Same difference.” So, she says, “No, phonics and sounds and—“ And we just had the biggest little disagreement about it. I says, “Oh, no. I learned to read from my sounds. This is the way that I learned to read. I remember that very





well.” You know, because Ms. Coleman would be sounding out “eh,” “ah,” and you know, all them sounds—what you doing all that grunting for? But anyway, our teachers, we—hindsight now, we admire the teachers that did work with us, because they used what they had, and they gave us all that they could give us because they knew what we were going to be confronted when out in life, during that particular time. So yes, they used—they had to use that hand-me-down stuff, but they also had to incorporate a lot of stuff to prepare you and get you ready.

So you have to admire that about teachers. Of course, we didn’t realize it at the time; but I mean, as you go along, and as you’re exposed to different things in life, then you realize what a job that those teachers did accomplish in your life. So, those are some of the good things. You know, we didn’t have ESC classes and stuff like that. No, I never heard of that ‘til my kids started going to school. Of course, I didn’t have ESC kids, but our teacher says every kid can learn. We were all in that class together. Every kid didn’t learn at the same pace, but those teachers worked with you. You were not set aside or sent to any special class because you were slow, and this and that. Every kid could learn. So we had no such thing as all this ESC junk and stuff. They didn’t have—I suppose it’s not junk; we’re in a situation now where I suppose public schools somewhat have to do what they have to do, because, you know. So. But we just didn’t have that kind of thing. Here again, hindsight tells me that I should be thankful for that kind of thing. I appreciate that kind of thing. But the experience at Mebane, as I said, it was a very good experience. We had to buckle down, and we made it. In spite of the rivalry, and all that sort of thing. But like I said, it was good, wholesome





rivalry. We just knew that whatever we were involved in, we were going be much better than them Alachua kids. You know, that’s just the bottom line there. And to this day some of them still talk about, “Oh yeah, you were from High Springs!” Stuff like that.

	L:	Were there any teachers at Mebane that you had that kinda stood out for you? K:	My favorite teacher from Douglass and at Mebane was Mr. Caffey. Isaac Caffey.

At Douglass he was English, he was over the library, he was the bell ringer. But I took English and Lit, and all of those things that we learned, that the kids aren’t exposed to these days, Mr. Caffey—and, well of course, Mr. Caffey was one of the same ones that told us that, “See, you’re sitting up in here, you’re wasting your time today. Now, when you get down there to that new school, those kids are just going to run rings around you because you’re not applying yourself!” So, one of the things that Mr. Caffey taught us at some level was sentence— identifying the parts of speech in a sentence. But we did that through a way of diagramming the sentence. I don’t know what they do these days and times, but we made our diagram. There were different kinds of diagrams, and sometimes you could really get creative with your diagram, but just so long as you had the right—the adjective where it was supposed to be, and the verb was in order, and your subjects, and your conjunctions, and your prepositions, and so forth. I remember that so well. And then, when—see, this is one of the things that we harped on, because when we got to Mebane—now, their teachers was teaching them—had taught, them rather—sentence structure, and stuff like that. But it was different from the way that we had learned it at Douglass. So therefore, our way





that we had learned it at Douglass—the way Mr. Caffey taught us—was superior to theirs, because they didn’t use the diagram like we did. But the diagram did make it much more simple, to be able to identify your parts of speech. And some of those things just kind of stay with you. You know, here, well, even with my kids, they say, “Daddy, how do you spell” something? So I say, “Listen, apply this rule: it’s ‘i before e, except after c.’” We just—all of those little basic rules there, they just stayed with me. And we had essay writing and stuff like that. You know, kids now graduate from school and can hardly even do a paragraph.

	L:	Yeah. Plus handwriting. [Laughter]



	K:	Yes! Yes, their penmanship is atrocious! But we had penmanship classes and that sort of thing. So, go on, Christina.

	L:	Oh no, no. It’s okay. Did your family belong to a church growing up?



	K:	Oh, yes. We were Baptist. Our church was a neighborhood church. I lived about a block, in steps, from the church that we went to. As a matter of fact, my grandmother’s niece was one of the founders of that church— it’s the Shiloh Missionary Baptist Church in High Springs that stands today. So, she was one of the founders of that church. She and—well, it’s always ladies that found things, religious things. Anyway, but she and three or four other ladies founded that church, way back when. I think somewhere, almost a hundred years now. I learned that. That wasn’t something that I heard that much at home, but I learned it from being at a church anniversary. And when the history was read, and they were the founders, and I says, “Onie.” And the person says to me, “Ms. Onie Brown.” And I says, “Well, that’s my kinfolk!” You know, and when I got home





and I asked my mom, she says, “Oh, yeah. Guess we never told you that. Yeah, Onie was one of the founders of that church. You know, they raised money and got that structure going, and blah blah blah.” So yeah, we were Baptist people.

	L:	Did you go like just on Sundays, or did they have events during the week, or—?



	K:	Well, we only went on Sundays, the kids. My grandma and mom sometimes would go with something they would have; “prayer meeting,” as they called it. I think they now—it’s fancied up and it’s “Bible study,” and prayer meeting, and stuff like that. They would go sometimes, always on a Wednesday night. But we only went on Sundays, and we also looked forward to vacation Bible school. That was just so fun!

	L:	I loved it, too, when I was a kid! [Laughter].



	K:	Yeah. Oh, it was just so fun. As a matter of fact, I was the superintendent of Sunday schools after I was a grown man. I became superintendent of Sunday schools at that Shiloh church.

	L:	So, you attended there after you grew up? K:	Mmhm. Mmhm.

	L:	Do you attend there now or did you—? K:	No, not now.

	L:	Interesting. Let’s see: so, you graduated in 1959? K:	1959.

	L:	And so, did you guys—what kind of graduation ceremony did you have?



	K:	As far as I’m concerned, it was just beautiful. We had baccalaureate, and we also had a commencement program. Now our baccalaureate was always—it was





usually held on a Sunday, and in those days it was a religious ceremony where you had speakers to come in, and they didn’t have to shy away from religion and things like that. They came in and they spoke to you. Now, leading up to graduation and that baccalaureate, everything had to be done proper and in order. So therefore, we practiced how to come in the auditorium; our seating and all that. We practiced that until we had it down pat. I look at the graduations now where the kids just walk on in. You know, they just walk in, and they put on anything that they want. We had our robes that we had to rent, but the boys, every boy had dark trousers, white shirts, black bowtie. The girls, every one of those girls had white dresses on up under those robes. I mean, I guess the logic these days is nobody knows what you got on up under your robe anyway! Maybe that’s their logic they using. But everything had to be in order in those days. So, we looked forward to that. And we also—we marched in on the “War March of the Priests,” I’ll never forget that. It’s a song. Dum-dum-dum-dum, do-do-do- doom-doom-doom-doom-do, and you know, I’m sure you’ve—they probably still use that somewhat. And then we, when everything was over, and disembarked, we disembarked on pomp and circumstance. So, everything was just so organized then. We looked forward to our homecoming activities, because you know, we would choose our homecoming court and all that sort of thing. And we had, each year, a different young lady would be selected as Ms. Mebane, and of course that was by student votes and stuff like that. So, that was exciting. And most especially, our first year at Mebane, that was in [19]57, and I was a tenth grader. But one of our tenth grade students, Betty-Ann Thomas—she was a





girlfriend of mine—she was selected as Ms. Mebane. So you know, the alumni— we have an alumni association, a high school alumni association, and they have had programs, and we organize to raise money for scholarships, and that’s what we do. Now, this is what the alumni is all about. We have, I just don’t have a number of how many scholarships that have been awarded so far, but we are well on our way to about a hundred thousand dollars’ worth of scholarships. And that’s good for a small organization, for these little poor surrounding communities. And that is great, but our entire focus and concentration is on scholarships for students. So, that was always an exciting time, because we had our homecoming parade.

	L:	The high school had a homecoming parade?



	K:	Mmhm. A homecoming parade, and the girls and their court and all that would be in the parade. And we did floats in those days. All so exciting; each class could do a float, and sometime we would work on that float for a whole week. It was just exciting.

	L:	Were there any other kind of traditions of your senior year? Like these days, in my high school, they had a bonfire, and they have “Skip Day.” Did they have anything like that?

	K:	I don’t think we ever had anything called “Skip Day.” [Laughter] But, there were some—you know, I’m trying to recall them as you are asking me—there were some things that was just synonymous with seniors that we did. I know after a lot of our high school games, ball games, we would have a little dance down in the ag building for a few hours, and blah blah blah. And those of us that had come by





bus, the bus would be on standby, so when they closed the dance down, you can get back on the bus and take you back home at night. So we did things like that. Now, some of these classes after me, I mean, they did all kinds of things. You know, because even my wife’s class, she was 1965 graduate, so I’m just a few years older than my wife. But she graduated from Mebane, also. And—

	L:	And what’s her name? Sarah? K:	Sarah.

	L:	And her maiden name?



	K:	Mack. So, there were some things. But no, we didn’t have a bonfire. Now, we used to have our own little bonfire—Charles, my brother, and some of his brothers—at Christmastime. Because you know, I mean on Christmas Eve, my mom would be in, and she’s busy, she’s trying to do this, and that, and the other. And we would get old tires—we always would save a tire of two during the year, so that we could burn that tire at Christmas. So we would get way out in the back, and we would have the most fun out there around that tire. Then of course, after we stayed out there for the allotted amount of time, you came in smelling like a bunch of rubber, and you’d go in and they’d tell you, “Well, you know, Santa Claus isn’t coming ‘til you go to sleep.” But pretty soon it’d be morning, and you could see what old Santa had left you, or whatever the case was. So, just simple things. My grandkids, when I shared this story with them that we made all of our—I says, “I made everything that I played with.” You know, my little popguns and kites and everything that we played with. You know, it was—and they, “Daddy!”— they call me Daddy— “Daddy, make us one!” I says “Oh God,





what have I gotten myself into?” But you know, bow and arrows, and stuff like that that? We just made those things. It’s amazing what you can do with newspaper. We made our kites from newspaper. We would go out and get the sticks out of the field back out there somewhere, usually [inaudible 1:03:37], and you could break them, and tie them together, and form your frame. And you fit that newspaper, or a sack, whatever, because in those days, cleaner bags, they were not plastic like they are now. We had paper cleaners’ bags, and that was ideal for a kite! My grandmother, she was a quilter, and we had a big trunk—one of those great big back trunks back there in the back in the closet—and that’s where she would keep all her scraps. Now it was a no-no; you did not go in there, and you didn’t bother grandma’s scraps. But when we’d make a kite, we’d sneak in there, and we’d get a piece of material, and we’d cut it into strips to make the tail for our kite. My brother says that the longer the tail, the higher the kite’s going to go! So, you know, like my grandma didn’t know we had been in the trunk. But those were the fun things. You would—I was just as happy as anything to find a bicycle tire rim. You could take that bicycle tire rim, and you’d de-spoke it, and you’d get a clothes hanger—and in those days, clothes hangers was made out of very strong wire, not these little flimsy things we have now—and we made us a loop for that, you straighten out the wire and you put a loop in it, as such, kind of a U-loop, that fit around the rim. And you could just roll it around—just, oh! That was the most fun! Go to the store and you got your bicycle rim and you tire. And I mean, some of us were just famous with them. Because there was this one boy, Jose; Jose could do all kind of turn, tricks and things like—you know, and we





even made our play horses and stuff like that. You had to be—first of all, there were not a whole bunch that was available to us then, and at same time, our parents just couldn’t afford it. You just got out there, and you’d just use your imagination, and we had the most fun, the most fun, with that. I can remember the girls, there was something, I think they call it—oh sawgrass-type stuff. Girls around there, they would get them a clump of that, pull up that grass—it would be long grass—and they would put it in a bottle or something. And they would braid it up, and that was their dolls. And put a ribbon on it. And they’d play with dolls.

There was one more fortunate family in the neighborhood, they were able to buy their daughter paper dolls. You ever heard of paper dolls?

	L:	Mmhm.



	K:	Oh. So, Frances had some paper dolls! You know. You just look back on these things, the simplest of things that we had so much fun with. So much fun with. Mebane changed a whole bunch. The very last class at Mebane—I think what I said was the class of [19]69 to [19]70—they were disrupted kind of mid-year, because the courts had sent down a mandate or whatever, that “You will abide by the integration now!” So, those kids were disrupted during mid-year. So I think that perhaps if, maybe if they had had a summer or something? But I mean, these Florida, and in particular just danced all around what they were supposed to be doing. But maybe if they’d had a period that they could have eased themselves on into it. But they had been given all that, that time and chances.

But the kids, I mean, here it is mid-year; so, the kids from Mebane, they were very rebellious for the simple fact that they didn’t want their diploma to say “Santa





Fe.” “We’ve gone over half a school year here, now we’ve got to go up there! We want—” So, that fought that thing. And sure enough, the school board did let their diplomas say Mebane—that they were Mebane graduates. It was just kind of a— those were some times, that’s just all I can say. But some of the times that we went through. But you know, through it all, we just had so much fun. We get together now, and we laugh and we talk about the fun, and some of the teachers, and most of my high school teachers now are all gone. There’s a few of them, about three or four, that still around. Mmhm.

	L:	You mentioned before that they were kind of like, up until 1969, when they said “No, you’ve got to do this,” there were sort of some half-measure kind of thing. What kind of—do you have any examples of the kinds of things they tried?

	K:	Well for one thing they kept talking about, still harping on the “separate but equal.” And you could send your child to a White school on a voluntary basis if you wanted to. It wasn’t mandatory. There were a few families in High Springs that did let their kids start out at Santa Fe before it was mandatory, but those kids caught hell. However, now, their parents were educators, to let their kids go. And we thought they were just pretty brave kids, but they caught kind of a, they had some time up in there. So, if you want to say that they paved the way, it was about five of them, and I believe they were all from one family.

	L:	Do you remember the name of the family? K:	Oh, yes. The Gassetts.

	L:	So the parents were teachers?





	K:	Both of them. Sandy and Essie Gassett both were educators in the school system.

	L:	And so, they sent—would that have been in the 1960s, or before that?



	K:	That was in the [19]60s, when they were trying to transition all this thing, and they left it up to “If you want to send your kids there”; well, you know, people were protective of their children. And you didn’t want your kids to be exposed to all kinds of things. Which, if you ever watch any of those movies from the early years, they are not fiction. Those things happened. To be spit upon and pulled at, and called all kinds of names, and stuff like that. There’s a case in particular, as far as one of those kids that went to Santa Fe, is Roychester Marbly, would be his name. But his mom was the sister of Sandy Gassett, who was the educator, and this boy was just smart as a whip. As a matter of fact, when he got there to Santa Fe, this boy was, had the average and all, to be the valedictorian. But they finagled all around that, and they would not let that boy—but there was one teacher in particular, name escapes me, and all of that, that fought for that boy.

But they would not budge, they would not give. So, Roychester is living off somewhere—I don’t know whether he’s in Georgia, or up north somewhere now, and he’s doing well with his life. But that teacher remembered him. They did some kind of article. Oh, the teacher’s long gone, from removed from Santa Fe, but they did some article about something in reference to that school, and she just thought that it was very befitting that she find Roychester. And she did.

	L:	The teacher?





	K:	Yes. So, they had a very nice reunion and all, but those are some of the kinds of things that, you know.

	L:	Was Roy Chester Marbly— K:	Marbly.

	L:	Was his last name?



	K:	Mmhm. But, that boy was smart as a whip. Now one thing that I taught my kids: I always taught them, ‘You are second to none. I will never have to come to the school about you, for your behavior. Never. I won’t come to the school for your behavior. Do you understand me? But now, if you’re having problems, and you feel that you’re being unfairly this, and that, and the other, your daddy will be there.” And in my house, it was more or less left up to me to take care of school situations, which there weren’t that many, because Sarah, my wife, was a schoolteacher also. She was in the school system, and our kids, in most cases, they went to where she was working, as far as elementary school is concerned. When they got in high school they went different ways. My oldest daughter was in the IB program at Eastside, so she’s an IB graduate. And my youngest was in the IHP program. That was offered at GHS. So they never had to—they never went to Santa Fe High School, and stuff like that. But I taught them that, and my daughter, my oldest, she has two sons. And you know, she remembers everything that I’ve told them; as a matter of fact, sometimes I just sit back and I can hear her repeating some of the things. You know, like, she’ll tell those boys, “Now, I’ll never come to that school because of your behavior. I’ll never do it.

Now, I’ve taught you that you’re second to none, and you are not going to make





me ashamed.” So, you have to teach your kids these kinds of things. My youngest daughter, when she was in the third grade, she got in trouble because there was a little girl in there that just wanted to bother her. Always. Always. And needless to say, this is a little White girl that was always doing something to her. And the final analysis, Brandy always wound up in trouble. And she would discuss it with her mom, and her mom of course would come and discuss it with me. So, it just kept getting so—you know, she would always have to go to time- out. She would always have to take the punishment. And she would tell Ms.

Prescott what’s going on, and Ms. Prescott’s, “Oh, you’re just a tattler,” and blah blah blah, and so forth and so on. So finally, it got around to—now, here I’m unaware of all this; during all this time, she and her mom would have these discussions, because she would stay to school with her mom and come home with her mom. And so finally, Sarah confronted me that—she says, “I think it’s time that you have a talk with Ms. Prescott. Brandy’s been having a problem up there, and it’s not that she’s a tattler or anything, but this child is getting her in trouble.” So, Sarah went over some of the instances with me, and I of course discussed them with Brandy. So then I told Brandy, I says, “Well Brandy, I tell you what: now, we’re going to try this thing a different way here. If she keeps bothering you, you just may have to take matters into your own hands. However, if you do that, then you’re going to have to suffer the consequences. Okay?” She says, “Well I’m just so tired of being pushed around, and Ms. Prescott,” and this and that, and the other. I says, “Like I say. Now, I’m going to schedule a conference with Ms. Prescott. I’m going to do that. But in the meantime, this is it.





If you have to matters—you just may have to take matters into your own hands.” So in a few days, Brandy did have to take matters into her own hands. She decided that no, I’m not telling Ms. Prescott today that you’ve run that crayon all over my stuff. I’m going to handle this myself. And of course, she did, and well then Ms. Prescott had Brandy up there, and she says, “We don’t act that way in this class, and we don’t fight,” and this, that, and the other. So she says, “Well, my daddy told me that I may have to take matters into my own hands.” So anyway, here I’m scheduling a conference with Ms. Prescott, and when I got there, Ms. Prescott has all of Brandy’s work all laid out. “Oh she’s just the best student, she’s smart as a whip.” And here, I says, “I’m not here about her academics. I know her academic ability. We know that. I’m here about the problem that she’s having.” “Yes sir, Mr. King. Well, you know, Brandy did get into the trouble—.” I says, “Brandy’s gotten into a whole lot of trouble because of—“ The girl’ name escapes me now, and that’s not important. I says, “She’s gotten into a whole bunch. But it seems that Brandy is always the one that has to be in time-out, especially when it’s some activity going on that she’s—Ms.

Prescott, I have a problem with that. I don’t think that it’s being handled like it should. Yes, I did tell Brandy to take matters into her—.” “Well, we don’t teach the kids to fight.” I say, “I don’t teach mine to fight, either. But I did tell her that she may have to suffer the consequences, so if she was willing to suffer the consequences. Now, but I’m here to see you. And I’m telling you that whatever method that you are using, it seems to be just a little biased. And I would suggest that you look at the way that you are handling things, so that my child doesn’t





continually get in trouble in your class. Now, I don’t know any other way that I can make myself clearer to you.” And we didn’t have that problem anymore. You know, and it’s ironic that my grandkids, we had them for a while there when their mom was trying to get situated. So, they were with us when they were in school, and they were going to school in Alachua. The youngest was at Irby Elementary School, and lo and behold, who would be one of the teachers there at Irby? Ms. Prescott. And I volunteered—I did a lot of volunteer work there at the school, because the boys would just wanted me to—so, it was just all going well. So, I was helpful around there. I had my specialties in things that I did. I always worked with them doing the hearing and screening, and that sort of thing. And other things like that that I had an expertise in. So, but anyway, lo and behold, I came eye to eye one day. Now she never—we never grumbled another word to each other after that conversation, and Sarah says, “Well, I don’t know what happened with that, but she doesn’t have a thing to say to me anymore.” And she worked with Sarah. They were not on the same grade level. But you know, when she saw me down there at Irby School, she looked at me. And she didn’t say anything to me, because she brought her class up to be screened. And I’m doing my job and all and I’m thinking to myself, “I believe she recognizes me.” But here it is, oh gosh, maybe six months later: and I’m in the hallway there one day at the school, coming from working back there doing something, and she says, “Well, how are you today, Mr. King?” [Laughter] You know, I’m taken aback a little bit. I says, ‘Oh, I’m fine Ms. Prescott.’ But anyway, I didn’t have situations like that with my kids. Because like I say, I just taught my kids that “You will do your best.” I





said, “Now, you don’t have any problems. If you had a problem we’d have you in a situation where you would get the help you need. So therefore, we’re not going to have all these behavioral problems.” Kids just act out so in school, and so much of it these days come from home, and stuff like that.

	L:	[Laughter] So, I probably should have asked you earlier, but when did you and your wife meet?

	K:	We met in 1969. We met. And we were married in 1971. We met through a cousin of mine, Margaret. Margaret and Sarah, who had gone to some high school together—at Mebane, before Margaret moved to Jacksonville—and they wound up at the same college in Jacksonville. And of course, they were very good friends. And, as it would be, Margaret came home for homecoming one year—Mebane homecoming. Mebane was a middle school then, and they were having homecoming, and they had asked me to use my car for Ms. Alumni at the time, which was Nancy King. But anyway, Margaret came, and Sarah came with her, and that’s how I sort of met Sarah. You know, I saw this little girl—well, of course I knew Margaret’s reputation—and you know, when I saw Sarah, it was during the mini-skirt era, mind you. So, Sarah had one of those little—that thing must have been a micro-mini. [Laughter] Here I am, oh, I’m a full grown man, and the little girl comes. When they arrived at our house in High Springs, my grandmother was there. I was still in bed. And so when I’d heard all of this commotion going on out there, it was about time for me to get up anyhow, because I had to get my car ready. We had made the streamers for the car, but I was going to need somebody to put those streamers on. So anyway, when I





walked out, there was Margaret, and of course we had a little reunion. Then she introduced me to Sarah. And I looked at her, I says, “See now, this is a fast girl, here!” You know, cause, here I am basing it all on Margaret—now, Margaret and I are just the best of friends—but Margaret was just, as the old folk would say in our days, she was just “so fast.” [Laughter] So, I kind of sized Sarah up a little bit. But being a mature man of course, so when they left, and went out the house for something, my grandmother says to me, she says, “Oh, my! That child can’t even bend over in that skirt, can she?” [Laughter] Sarah and I laugh about that right now. I say, “Sarah, I’ll never forget that.” It was a little brown skirt. And of course, there’s nothing Sarah can do with that skirt now—nothing whatsoever! You know, and this mini stuff is all coming back. But we just laugh about that. Oh, she wore her mini stuff. Her first job was in 1970, and it was in Putnam County. So, she wore it in Putnam County for—Sarah worked in Putnam County until 1978, I believe it was. We were married in 1971, and we lived here in Gainesville for a year and a half. And then we had a house built out in Jonesville where I am now. Her dad had property out there, and he let us pick a spot to put a house on. So, that’s where we are today. But yeah, so, two kids and two grandkids later, we’ve been married for thirty-nine years.

	L:	So, when you graduated, what did you do after you graduated from high school?



We’re at 1959-1969 here, your bachelor days. What did you do? [Laughter]



K:  Yeah, I was quite a bachelor, too! Anyway, I—when I first graduated high school, my mom says, “Well you know, we don’t have much,” she say, “but what are you going to do?” I says, you know me, I says, “Well, I don’t want to go to school right





now. I’m just going to give school a rest.” So she says, “Well, okay. But you know you’re going to have to get a job.” So, I knew that. So I’ve done just about everything in the world: I’ve worked on the chicken farms; I’ve worked at the egg packing place; and the job that broke the camel’s back before I started school was a road construction job. And this was back when the interstate, I-75, and I- 10 and all, was being built. My uncle was working with a company that was doing a section of I-10. And I needed a job. He says, “Well, you want to come try out for this job?” So I says, “Well, I would.” Do you know where Lawtey is? You’ve heard of Lawtey?

	L:	Lawtey?



	K:	Lawtey, Florida? L:	Yeah, mmhm.

	K:	Just beyond Lawtey, where you would ramp onto I-10? Well if you ever ramp on there, you just think about me.

	L:	Okay. [Laughter]



	K:	I helped build that ramp on there; wasn’t nothing but I stacked up roots and limbs, but that was my part of that. But, tell you what. We rode a truck—on the back, mind you, of a pickup truck every morning from High Springs, which we had to leave awful early, to that work site there. And some mornings you would just be so cold! There was my uncle, and another man, and Mr. Coffey, and myself. We were—we had to ride the back, because when the man got there to pick us up, him and two of his buddies already had the cab of the truck already filled. They were not generous—they wouldn’t say that, “We’ll switch off with this





thing.” So, were permanent backseat. So some days—and we would cover up under the plastic sheeting on the back, back there, and we’d huddle together just trying to stay warm. And that wind’s just beating down on that plastic, you know? And when we would arrive at the job site, we would be so cold! It seems like all of the months that I worked there were either the fall or the winter. But our boss, he always had a fire going when we got there, in a big barrel. He would tell us, “Go get yourself warmed up before your day starts.” That was when I says, “Ha! I bet you I’m going to school now!” [Laughter] So, I did. I went off to school in Jacksonville.

	L:	What school did you go to?



	K:	I went to Edward Waters. You’ve probably never heard of it, it’s a private college.



Still in existence today. And Sarah, that’s where Sarah did her undergrad work at, also. Of course, we were never there at the same time because here I am, six grades ahead of Sarah, and six years older, and that sort of thing. But I was ready then to go to school. I lived with an aunt, my mom’s sister, in Jacksonville, and I advise kids: [whisper] never live with your relatives! Because when my kids were getting ready to go off to school—you know, and I done told them: “Never live with your relatives!” Because my aunt was just so overbearing. She wanted to treat me like I was a child. And as far as I was concerned, “Hey, I’m a young man!” I worked at the Jewish center, so I basically supported myself in school.

And we had a problem, and I came out of school for—supposedly, for a semester; so I thought. And I got drafted in the Army. And of course, if I had been in school, I could have gotten the deferment. But, here I am trying to work and





make some money to get back in school, and that’s how I got drafted. So I did my stint in the Army. I was a personnel specialist in the Army, and that was a good, fulfilling experience for me. I made sergeant, and when I came out, I went back to school at Santa Fe, then at the University of Florida.

	L:	Oh, okay. What did you major in?



	K:	Well, I got my AA from Santa Fe, and I started in the Nursing program here at Florida and finished that. So, I was a surgical nurse by profession. I didn’t work it but about two years, so basically, I’ve been in research and those kinds of things for my career. I loved surgery, but the supervisor that we had at the time in surgery just made it so unbearable for you. You got to remember, keep in mind, that those were some times when people were just so mean and nasty. This lady had come from the University of Georgia, and she was—Southern stuff and tradition was just ingrained in this woman. And she came and took over surgery. As far as I was concerned, I was a damn good scrub nurse. I mean, I was—ooh, gosh, that’s gonna—but I was good! But she and I had a little problem, because she would treat the orderlies so mean. And I always would kind of come to the defense of the orderlies, and she didn’t like that so well. So, we had some ongoing problems. You know I’d be scrubbed in a case, and if she wanted to pick a bone with me, about any little thing—and my brother worked in surgery also, and he says, “This woman has just got to pick on you.” But she would have someone come in and scrub me out, and I’d be summoned to her office for the most petty of things. And I always stood up for myself. And she told me one day, she says, “You know, you just want to have the last word, and you just want to





this, and that, and the other. And you are not like my boys from Georgia!” I says, “Now, that’s the operative word right there, Mrs. Freeman. You see, in Georgia, you had ‘boys’ that worked for you. Here, you got men. I’m a man. And you will respect me as such. And I’m going to respect you as a woman.” “Oh, you definitely have a chip on your shoulder, Roger.” I say, “Well, that just might be true. But I just don’t think it’s going to get knocked off here in your operating room.” So, the straw that kind of broke the camel’s back with me in there was, we were scrubbed into a case and—it was an abdominal case—and we were well into the case. I was a scrub nurse, worked in that case— not I wasn’t, I was the circulating nurse. They were closing and they had a problem: they found a bleeder just before they were closing. And of course, I mean, this thing was gushing and bleeding. And the suction in there—the vacuum thing over here, clogged up. They had them all around the operating rooms. Every one that— [snaps fingers]—I would hit, you know you’d take the tube out of there, and you’d put it over in there, and none of them was working. And of course, Dr. Isenberg was panicking, and says “We got to do something quick! We’ve got to do something quick, here! We’re going to lose the patient!” And so, it just—and all this time, I don’t even know that Ms. Freeman is there in the room—and so I says—I got one of the suction buckets, and pulled the cord out to the induction room. That suction was working. And I slapped it in there, and you know, Dr.

Isenberg says, “Oh, Hallelujah! Thank you!” You know, this man was just giving me all—he says, “Roger, you saved this patient today. I thank you so much.” Well, that old woman was in there, and you know, I’m thinking that all is well.





She’s got—and you’ve got your mask on and all this, but you could just see her eyes just all on me. And so sure enough, we had finished the case, and I’m just about to go and get me a break and everything, and Sherry comes in. She says, “Ms. Freeman wants to see you in her office.” Everybody in the operating room then had her pattern down. You know, when I would see some one of them walk into the room and tap me on the back, I knew I was to be scrubbed out. And this would be aggravating sometimes to the doctor, because in surgery, you pick up on a particular surgery that you really like and you have certain doctors that you really like to work with, and vice versa. Sometimes a doctor will request that you do a case with them. You know, I went in, and she’s going to bitch with me about—she say, “I didn’t like your performance today at all in the operating room.” I said, “What in the world are you talking about? If you were in the room Ms. Freeman, you could see that the suction, the vacuum in that room was not working at all. If I must give myself some credit, I would pat myself on the back for thinking to drag that cord out into the induction room to get some suction.” “Well, you could have worked a lot faster with it, and Dr. Isenberg was not pleased at all with your performance.” Well the man has told me, “Roger, I thank you so much. You saved this patient today.” Blah blah blah and blah blah blah. “So you just better get a grip on it, and start paying more attention.” And it was just—! So, by this time, I’m coming out of her office, because it got so that when I walk into her office I says, “What is it now?” You know? And she would just summons me to sit down. I says, “No, I’m not going to sit today. I can take it standing up. You go on there and get it off your chest, Ms. Freeman.” You know,





and she’d just— so when I walks out of her office, and there’s the counter here, and Dr. Isenberg is coming around, he’s going down to the doctors’ lounge. And I says, “Oh, Dr. Isenberg!” And she’s right behind me. [Laughter] I says, “Do you have some complaints with me and the surgery we just finished?” He says, “What? What are you talking about? I just thank you so much for what you did.” I says, “Oh, well Ms. Freeman was just telling me that— “ He says, “Ugh!” And kept walking, and “Ugh! You know that—“ She says, “Back in my office!” So anyway, we went through that kind of thing just about, and about, and about, and about. So, there was chief of ENT, George Singleton. Everybody feared George Singleton around there because he was such a—oh, he was particular! He didn’t come in back there when you were doing an ENT case that often, but when he came in, oh, we was just—! You know, you were at attention. Now, he had his special nurse that, if he was doing a case, he always wanted to use Carol. So anyway, Dr. Singleton looked like—you rotated through the different surgeries.

So when I was on the ENT, doing my rotation through there for that particular time, it seemed like every time I looked up, I can see them old piercing eyes of Dr. Singleton in that room, just walking around, never saying a mumbling word to me. He’d just be looking. So, you know, I discussed it with my brother. I says, “Oh, God! I’ll be glad when my rotation in ENT is over! That man’s worse than Ms. Freeman with them eyes. He just looking at me.” So, my brother kind of chuckle a little bit. He says, “You know one thing? Actually, he likes you.” And I said, “What?” He says, “He likes the way you work. He ever say anything to you, complain about anything?” I say, “No, he never says anything. He’s not scrubbed





in, he’s just there observing and all. Gets you kind of nervous.” So he says, “No, he’s actually—he’s observed you, and he likes you.” And my brother left it at that. So, time just goes on, on, on, and the final analysis: Dr. Singleton offered me a job to work in his research lab. And it came right in the nick of time, because see, I was sick of Ms. Freeman, and she was just about—I had worked so hard trying to be a good surgical nurse. And you know, I was a little reluctant with him to take the job, but he says, “You will still be doing surgical procedures. I understand your reluctance to leave something that you like. You’ll just be doing it with animals and all that.” So, I gave it some consideration, and he says, Well, let me know. But I need to know soon.” So, I went and discussed this with my brother, and he says, “This is your opportunity.” So I did my two week notice, and brought it in, and I gave it to Ms. Frazier to, she was needed to unlock Ms.

Freeman’s—I said, “Would you put this on Ms. Freeman’s desk, please?” So, I expected—that was one morning that I knew that I would be scrubbed out. So I expected that tap on my back. And I says “Okay.” So when I left, I went to her office, and lo and behold, there she was with her assistant and two other of the head nurses in there. And even one of my instructors was there. They all in her office. So you know, I go in and I just—and she was just as nice as pie, and she says, “Sit down, Roger.” And we’re talking and then she let my instructor go first. And, “Roger you’ve just such a wonderful job through the program. And you actually one of our best that we have back there.” And you know, I’m just taking all this in. And Ms. Freeman says, “Well, I understand that you’re going to be leaving. I just read your resignation now, here, and I just won’t accept that, and I





just— because you’re so—“ I said, “You know something? This is all well and good, but it’s damn well too late. A person would like to know that they are appreciated while they are busting their behind around here, because Ms.

Freeman, you’ve done nothing but just ride me like a old, broken-down horse. Quite frankly, I’m ready to go. I hate leaving surgery, but I’m ready to go because I’m sick of you.” “Well, are you leaving for the money?” You know, she would not accept that she was wrong or overbearing in any way. “Are you leaving for the money?” I says, “No.” “Because if you are, you know we’re going to be getting a big raise pretty soon.” I said, “I’d leave for less money. Now, if y’all are all done, may I be excused please?” So I left surgery. And I never went back to surgery, because she stayed there in surgery for the longest time. But she got in trouble, and finally they had taken her down. She died; she was an alcoholic. Maybe that was some of her problem, too. But anyway, that was one of my work experiences, but I’ve worked in environmental engineering, and I’ve worked in veterinary medicine.

	L:	Okay. So did you, when you were a nurse, did you work here at UF, or at Shands?

	K:	Mmhm.



	L:	Was it Shands back then?



	K:	J. Hillis Miller. J. Hillis Miller Health Center was where it was then. L:	So then you worked for the doctor—was he a doctor at UF, too? K:	Yeah.

	L:	He had a research facility?





	K:	Yeah, but he had a research lab I think. One of our research mission was to, we were working with NASA to try to get a monkey prepared to go into space. See, the first thing that went up into space was a monkey. And we worked with water calorics in the air, and alter the ear drums and stuff, and we would do certain experiments with the monkeys’ ears to check their balance and see how their equilibrium was going to be. So, that was our primary goal; we had all these different pieces of equipment that we would use, and they would tell us this, that, and the other. And we were working against UCLA. They were doing the same project. However, they won. They used their monkey, let me put it that way. I was a little disappointed. But so I did some surgical procedures that we would work on cats and all. Didn’t lose but a few cats; I was kind of glad I was working with animals, because you know sometimes we would anesthetize our cats by the weight. You had to fix up your potion according to their weight, and you could just be off of the weight just a tad, and that would just absolutely kill the cat; they would just stop breathing. I can see how a doctor, when they make a mistake, how they would feel so—because you’d feel so bad that you’d lost that cat, especially when you could trace it back to you done put too much stuff in it!

	L:	Oh, yeah! [Laughter]



	K:	[Laughter] You know. But I’ve had some interesting jobs. I worked as a technician and teaching assistant in veterinary medicine here. So, that was my very last job. I worked through teaching labs for the Department of Veterinary Medicine.

	L:	So, did you retire from UF?





	K:	Mmhm. Yeah, been retired for, ooh! Maybe I retired in [19]97?



	L:	Oh, okay. What year did you graduate from UF? I didn’t catch that. K:	[19]70—I believe it was maybe [19]76 or something like that? Mmhm. L:	And so, you volunteer now, or you did volunteer now you said?

	K:	No, I—



	L:	At schools or?



	K:	No, I’m not—my kids are gone now, and they’re with their mom. She lives in Jacksonville. Both of my girls are in Jacksonville. I have one took after their mom; she’s a high school teacher, English. And my oldest is a doctor of pharmacy. So they both live in Jacksonville. So the boys are with their mom, and so my volunteering days at school, they’re all over. And of course, Sarah has been retired for going on three years. And she says, “Now, I’m hanging it up.” She don’t want to do any sub work or anything. You know, but I was thinking to myself, “Oh, it won’t be too long before she’ll be signed up to be doing some substitute teacher’s work.” She says, “Oh, no!” She worked for thirty-seven or - eight years. So, we’re two old retired people.

	L:	So what, do you guys—I know you’re struggling with an injury right now, but do you guys, like, have any favorite hobbies, or travel or, what do you like?

	K:	She loves to travel. She just loves to travel. And we’ve on a bit of traveling around. We’ll plan a trip, and she always wants to go the old routes so that we can go through the little towns. And she sleeps through every one of them. And I tell her, I say, “You know what? We could’ve made much better time on the interstate. But no, you got to go through all the little towns. And you sleep





through every one of them! So you’re not seeing this place, and that place, and the other.” But yeah, we hit about a little bit. You know, there’s so much here to see. And we have been planning—it hasn’t panned out for the past three years— we want to go and see the changing of the leaves. The closest point, I think, to us is some parts of Carolina. So, this time we got as far as actually letting AAA map out us a route and thing to Ashville, North Carolina. But two weeks ago— now, I think it’s just too late. The leaves are probably—they’ve changed and fallen, you know, now. But something came up with one of the grandboys; my oldest broke his ankle at school, and we had to kind of put things on hold and kind of help Brandy with the kids, and stuff like that. So that kind of failed. But, we’re going to get to see the changing of the leaves! But AAA was real good to us, so then it was good in some ways, and maybe not so good in other ways.

Because they sent us a brochure, you know, and you’re seeing it—but anyway, we’ll get there; we’ll do it. But our grandchildren are as— they’re one of our main focus right now really, boys.

	L:	How old are they? K:	Eleven and twelve. L:	Oh.

	K:	Mmhm, mmhm.



	L:	About to be teenagers.



	K:	Just about, uh-huh. And his momma knows it, too. L:	Did you have anything you wanted to add, or?





	K:	Well I guess if I’ve kind of been as thorough as you want me to be—and I probably talked too much—but no, I don’t.

	L:	No? Okay.



	K:	No.



	L:	No, I’ve learned so— K:	I hope it’s been good.

	L:	Yeah! No, I’ve learned so much today! I used to be a reporter before I came back to school. So, you’re very quotable, so I can that’s very good for my purpose.

	K:	Okay, well I’m glad that I was cooperative.



	L:	Yeah, no. It was a great interview, and I think um— [Break in recording]

	K:	— One of the main things that I want to do now—which we can do it almost any time now, and maybe we’ll do it after the first of the year—but, I want to get to Birmingham, Alabama. And I want to see the Civil Rights Museum there.

Because see, I lived that era. I lived the [19]60s. Martin Luther King, and all of this stuff, I lived that. I participated in some of the marches and the sit-ins and that sort of thing. So, I want to get up there. And they say it’s really, really nice, because it depicts all of the turmoil and stuff that people had to endure during the [19]60s. And I do want to see that, oh, the bridge; the march from Selma to that bridge. It’s Something-“Pettit” Bridge? Bloody Sunday is associated with it. It’s just something in me, I just want to go there, and I want to stand on that bridge. I really do. But I definitely want to go to the museum there. It’s down from the church where those five girls—they bombed that church, and those five girls





were killed. I can remember that almost like it was yesterday. You know? As far as I was concerned, now that’s just mean. That’s just mean. But anyway, you know that was then, and this is now, and you learn from your history. Our kids need to know our history, so I just pass on everything to them. And I have learned so much from my kids, especially from Brandy. Because Brandy was wanting to delve into the Black history segment. And she would just bring me stuff, and I says, “Oh, wow! Keep bringing this stuff, girl! You know, I’m learning here.” But both of my kids—I think that they’re pretty well-rounded young ladies. Especially—I mean Brandy, she’s got her PharmD, like I say. But Sherita is the bravest, because she’s teaching high school! [Laughter] Ugh! No way!

	L:	Well, when you say you participated in sit-ins and marches, was that in Jacksonville, or Gainesville, or—?

	K:	Gainesville.



	L:	Really?



	K:	Uh-huh. Right to Woolworth’s, which is long gone now. I was in there, with Charles Chestnut and a few others, trying to integrate—or desegregate, whichever one you want to use—the lunch counter. It was just… You know, you look back on those on those kinds of things, and it’s really something. But then, to see how people really acted at the time was really something. The thing that gets me is, that I always dwell on: we all together now to a certain extent. We can go and we live wherever we want now— basically. We can eat wherever we want now. Why did it have to take a court mandate to bring that down? We’re still the same people. You know? Why did all of that had to happened? Shoot, I can





remember the buses. “Passengers must stand behind a white line,” blah blah blah, and so forth and so on. Oh, I can remember all of that. I remember standing up from High Springs to Jacksonville. There were people just scattered all over the bus. But Blacks had to sit behind. My grandmother shared a story with us.

Once upon a time, she was coming from somewhere, and she said that the bus really wasn’t that crowded, because there had to be one person in these seats. But I mean White passengers would sit all the way back to however they wanted, but Black people, as they would board the bus, they had nowhere to sit because you couldn’t sit next to a White person. She said they were just all up and down the aisle, and the bus driver just pulled to the side of the road. And he says, “I want all of you to get together and share a seat, so some of these people can sit down.” So that was brave of him in those days, to do such a thing. But you know, you got good people. And it was just—the thing that kind of perplexed me is, how can you be so good, and yet allow so much unjust and wrong to go on? I guess you do what you have to do; you certainly don’t want to be ostracized or an outcast from your society, so you go along whether you are congruent with it or not. You know? You just—you do. So you know I’ve seen all of those things happen: the segregated counters and fountains, and White, Black, and you know, that sort of thing. No restroom. I lived that. I lived that. But I’m glad I did, because I think that it made me a better person. And it made me more appreciative. I can look back now and see where I’ve come from, in other words. You know? So, that’s about it. Uh-huh. Yep.

	L:	Well thank you so much.





	K:	Well you’re welcome— [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, May 9, 2017



	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 19, 2019