AAHP 186; Sims; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 186 Deborah Sims

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Maria Munoz on September 2, 2011 42 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: Deborah Walker Sims was born in 1954 and is the adopted daughter of Elizabeth Givens Walker. She reflects on her schooling and community at Robinson Jenkins Ellerson School in Gainesville, FL. It was a tight-knit community. Her mother served as the president of the NAACP for a few years. Ms. Sims discusses girlhood memories of segregation when she was 5. In high school, she enjoyed art and was an officer of the drill team. She had a semi-integrated prom. She joined the Women’s Army Core after graduation. She reflects on where she has lived and educational challenges for her and her peers.



Keywords: Gainesville; Florida; Education; Segregation; Women’s Army Corp



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 186

Interviewee: Deborah Sims Interviewer: Maria Muñoz Date: September 2, 2011



	M:	Hi, my name is Maria. We’re here at the—what is it called? The ‘Come Together Day’?

	S:	We’re still ringing it.



	M:	At the Robinson Jenksin— S:	Jenkins.

	M:	Jenkins Ellerson High School, and I’m here with—your name please? S:	Deborah Walker Sims.

	M:	Okay, hi, Deborah. S:	Hi.

	M:	Thank you for doing this interview with us. S:	Mmhm.

	M:	So, just a little bit about your childhood. So, your parents. How was your home life? What did your parents do? Did you have any siblings? Things like that.

	S:	Yes, my mother was Elizabeth Givens Walker. She was an educator here at this school. She taught special education. Yes, I have a brother that’s much older. He also graduated from RJE High School, and he went in the service. I was relatively just about—he was older, so I just about grew up almost alone cause I was an only child for a good while. And I think I grew up here. I ran around here all the time cause school got out for kids at two o’clock, but the teachers didn’t leave until three. So I ran around and I played with all the kids that were waiting for the bus, and I got to be friends with a lot of the kids that had the last bus. And sometimes, depending on if I had been bad, she’d make me study, and that kind





of stuff. [Laughter] But if I’d been good she’d let me play with them on the playground and that kind of stuff. But I learned a lot from having this as my base.

	M:	The school, or the community, or the—?



	S:	The school and the community, because back then there wasn’t much separation from the two.

	M:	Yes, ma’am.



	S:	The teachers that taught us, usually a lot of them went to the church that we went to. So, not only did we see them through the week, we saw them on Sunday. We saw them in the grocery store or at the cleaners where you—and there was a lot of entrepreneurs in this community at that time. We had our own dry cleaners, we had our own Mr. Paul’s store, we had like—and just about every corner we had a little store you can buy penny candy penny cookies and that kind of stuff. But, we had a lot of people that believed in us. And if you walked down the street, and there was something with you, or you did something wrong, you can go to any door and say, “Hey I need help.” And if you needed help, you got help. And most of the people knew who you were without you saying anything. It was just that close knit of a community. But, after a while, the teachers moved away; a lot of the pastors, they moved away. And a lot of times; we had pastors because these are small churches; we have pastors that live out of town and come here. Back then, most of the time the pastor was from around here. And that’s the way I grew up. That’s the way I remember this community and a lot of times they’ll tell you—I’ll get upset if somebody says, “Ugh! You live in [inaudible 3:47]?” Yeah. I grew up in the heart of [inaudible 3:46]. I lived 730 Pine Street, and it was a good





community. I knew all my neighbors. If I needed anything, my neighbors were there to provide it. If my neighbors needed something, and I know a lot of times my momma went to the door and Mrs. Walker, “I need so-and-so, and so-and- so,” and whatever she was doing, she stopped that and took care whatever the need was. Because this community—because she knew if her neighbor was hurting or had a problem, we all had a problem. And I grew up with that being instilled in me. Well, and my momma was the President of NAACP for a number of years as well. So, a lot of times people did come to the house for certain help.

	W:	Okay, and I’m going to go ahead and backtrack for a second. I took for granted that we met each other and we had this interview prior, so there’s a couple things I need to ask you if that’s okay right now. So, where were you born? And when were you born?

	S:	I was born in Philadelphia in 1954. In my early years I grew up in North Philadelphia, and I also had community ties there, and family. We had stores across the street, and that’s the difference between beginning growing up in the North and coming to the South. I could go across the street and slide up on the stool and order a fountain drink. When I came down here, my momma was going into the drug store to get a prescription filled, and this is how it goes when you don’t do what you’re told. She said, “Wait right here.” I saw the fountain, I saw the stool, so I said when she come back she going buy me a fountain drink. So I slid on the stool and that was the only time I smiled when I was in that store because the guy yelled at me and drove me off the stool, and that’s when I found out the stool lids came off, because he unscrewed it, took it back in the back, and wiped





it off. And he said, “Why did you let her do this?” And she said, “Did he touch you?” I said he pushed me off the stool. And she said, “Don’t you ever touch her again.” And then she got me by the hand and almost, she had heels and she had this kind of, but she had me by the hand, so I had to skip a little bit to keep up.

But she said, “I told you to stay where I was. Things are different here.” And that was my first lesson in segregation.

	W:	And what year was that? What year were you born in?



	S:	I was born in 1954. I came here in 1959, the summer of 1959.



	W:	And do you know why your parents came here? Why did they transition to the South?

	S:	My parents were not the ones that did that. My mother is my adopted mother. W:	Okay.

	S:	I was adopted from the North. W:	Oh, okay. All right.

	S:	She was already here. And that’s why she knew to tell me to stay here, but at that time I—I didn’t know.

	W:	Okay, and so, you came to RJE for elementary school? S:	Uh-huh.

	W:	And then, the transition finally happened to “across the track” as you guys said it. S:	Yes.

	W:	What year was that? Or what school year? What grade? S:	I was in the 9th grade and it was 1969-70 school year.





	W:	And can you describe the differences? Or your first experience in the mainstream school—how do you call it?—entering school versus RJE School.

	S:	Well, the first thing was that we were scattered out so it was sort of like we were separated. I’m talking about from the kids that you knew from the group that you were in earlier—previously. So, we didn’t see each other a lot unless we were like transitioning from one class to another. And then we’d say something to each other while passing, because you didn’t have time to socialize very much, because you had to go on to the next class. But, it was like two or three of us in a classroom and that was about it. But, we had teachers that they weren’t overly friendly, but they weren’t mean to us either. They weren’t—they weren’t mean to us. They just sort of told us what needed and that was it. They didn’t push us or mentor us is the word I think of, because they didn’t treat us as if they wanted us to excel. And, there were times when some of us were resentful of that, ‘cause there were some, especially the male part, some of the males were, not rowdy, but they didn’t want to be there, and you could tell. And a lot of them didn’t stay.

	W:	The African American males?



	S:	Uh-huh. A lot of them didn’t stay because a lot of males need a lot more attention and a lot more pride, and they didn’t get that. They didn’t get a lot of attention. If they didn’t play football or baseball or ran track you weren’t, I’m not gonna say insignificant, but you weren’t considered to be an asset. You weren’t pursued in order as far as what you got, and how you got it and whether you got your lesson and that kind of stuff. That’s why I said what I said earlier is that if you really wanted to, you could fade into the personal [inaudible 11:11].





	W:	And this is in High School?



	S:	Right. But being who I was from this school, eventually as I got a little older, I would sit there, like, “Okay you got to do something. What you gonna do next year?” And so I picked a few things that I would—I was interested in. And I excelled in them cause I liked art. And I took an art course and I loved art, and I still draw a little bit. I’m not famous for anything, but I still draw a little bit. And I got into the drill team, and I was interested in that.

	W:	And your drill team, were you the only African American?



	S:	No, there was quite few of us. I was the only token, what you would call, officer. You see, because, I was the historian. And in yearbook you’ll see me sitting in the middle, but I was the historian. But I enjoyed it and I did well in it. And some of the young, I was a senior at the time, and some of the younger ones, I helped them out as far as being able to march that Friday, because if they needed help earlier in the week, I’d go ahead and help them. And they looked up to me for that.

	W:	That march on Friday, can you elaborate on that? What’s the march on that Friday?

	S:	Okay, it was with the drill team. We marched Friday during the football games, and then any parades that needed to happen. Now that was the drill team. Now this other march, that Ms. White referred to, it was a march that was coordinated. And, you see, when we came to Bradford we had no representation or anything and it didn’t seem like they were listening to us; to understand. We wanted to participate, but we were locked out, and that’s disheartening to any young person





that has come from the rich history that we came from, and got to a place where you’re literally ignored. You know? So, with the help of the NAACP, we had a peaceful march. The school board—we let them know that we needed some way to have a voice in our education. And it still didn’t really happen until after graduated. I think in [19]73 they had a dual queen and king and queen.

	W:	And White, no African Americans?



	S:	Yes, and I graduated in [19]72, and that didn’t happen until [19]73. But, I would like to believe that it was because of our effort that that did happen for the class behind. They didn’t like it cause I think the National Guard was out and things. But the teachers didn’t know what was going on because we had a signal.

Somebody went around and knocked on all the doors, and when the knock came, we all fell out onto the street.

	W:	About where your house is?



	S:	No. The school doors was [Inaudible 15:19] W:	So this was that Friday march?

	S:	Uh-huh.



	W:	Okay, and so why were you marching?



	S:	Because we had no voice. We had no voice. They wouldn’t listen to us. Every time we tried to—not only king or queen and try to vote on it, they would vote us out.

	W:	Right.



	S	So, we at first tried to have like you said a duel king and, nah, they didn’t want it; they let us, they wouldn’t budge. But, after the march, we had to march a couple





times. But after the march in [19]73 they considered it. And it was like that for a couple years, I think, and then I think in [19]75, and they voted in an African American overall.

	W:	So, how was your prom? S:	My prom?

	W:	Yes, ma’am.



	S:	It was nice. I enjoyed it. We didn’t have a duel prom, we all went to the prom together, but we still—it was together but it wasn’t because we all sat on one side of the room and they all to another portion of the room. But, passing by we’d say hello and good and whatnot.

	W:	And the dance floor, was that integrated? Your food tables, was that integrated?



	S:	The food table was a kind of buffet type, so it was integrated, but you still went back to your separate table and with the people you came to the prom.

	W:	Yes ma’am. And the dance floor?



	S:	It was, I’ll say, semi-integrated. Some of the guys that played ball and stuff, now they—most of the regular guys stayed on this side of the room.

	W:	Not dancing at all or—? S:	Yeah they danced.

	W:	Did you dance like maybe around your tables and not so much on the dance floor?

	S:	Uh-huh. Yes, yes. They would dance like closer to the table than out in the middle of the dance floor. A lot of ball guys, they felt comfortable cause they were with their team mates. So they would dance more in the middle.





	W:	Okay.



	S:	But, we didn’t care about that part. We just were having a good time. But you have to realize that this has been the works since 1954, since I was born, and I was about to graduate from High School and it was just getting right. So, it was years in the process and the process still isn’t complete.

	W:	Even in 2001, I believe, a school in Tennessee or somewhere in the South, Morgan Freeman made a documentary and there’s a High School that still have segregated proms. And he actually offered to pay for an integrated prom, and they didn’t want it.

	S:	Parents didn’t want it. They didn’t want it. Uh-huh. W:	So, there’s still a lot of work! [Laughter]

	S:	That’s right. And if we had mingled too much, that would be the last thing.



Anyway, the problem is had men and women separate.



	W:	Were you warrant on that?



	S:	No, but you would say that we knew how to leave our place so to speak, but you would call that. Like I said, all of the ball players would be over there because they were closer with their teammates, and that kind of stuff. Don’t worry about them, and when the song was over they were back to our side of the table.

	W:	Oh, okay.



	S:	But, that’s how we were.



	W:	So, after High School, what did you do once you graduated?



	S:	I graduated [19]72, and in [19]73 I went in the military as a WAC. W:	What’s WAC?





	S:	I joined the Women’s Army Core, but right after Basic it became regular Army. And I went in as a WAC, but I became regular Army when I was there. And I went to Fort Sam Houston in the medical field. And I’m still in the medical field. I’m a licensed practical nurse now, and I’ve worked in the private sector for a few years, and I went to work for the prison and I just retired in 2009 from the prison. And right now I’m working for an agency. And I think I did some good work at the prison. I believe that every prisoner is somebody’s brother, father, son, and they deserve respect just like I do. And as long as you look at them like that and treat them that way they’ll treat you the same. But I had a lot a lot of people ask, “Aren’t you scared of the prison?” I said at first I had reservations, but like my momma told me, you say treat them like you would want to be treated and you’ll be all right. And I’ve always [Inaudible 21:46] I just worked out too much. I enjoyed my work. I think that’s where I was supposed to be.

	W:	So, do you have any kids?



	S:	No, I had no children. Yes, a matter of fact I got married when I was in the service. I met Groveman in Alabama, but I stayed married to him for ten years and then I got a divorce, but everything don’t work out like you plan. But we had no children. He doesn’t have any, and I didn’t have any.

	W:	So, I know that you came from the North— S:	From Philadelphia.

	W:	From Philadelphia; did you move anywhere else after other than military camps where you did your basic training? Did you reside anywhere else other than Starke or Jacksonville or Gainesville?





	S:	Okay, I moved from Illinois and I stayed here until I left in [19]73. I went to Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania, and Army of War College. And that was my first duty station and I stayed there a year. After I left there, I came home for thirty days. Then I went to Freiburg, Germany, and that’s where I met my husband in Germany. And I stayed there a year and that was wonderful. We we’re gonna get married in Germany, but we decided to wait until we came home. And I married him, and I stayed in Alabama for ten years before I worked at the prison. And I worked at Jackson Hospital Montgomery, Alabama.

	W:	And how was that?



	S:	I enjoyed it, I liked it. It was a good—but I had reservations about moving to Alabama because of everything I had heard about; Judge Wallace and that kind of thing, especially in the [19]70s. But I had no problem; no problem whatsoever.

	W:	No problem at work?



	S:	No, not at work. It may have been out where we lived, but we lived out in the suburbs, so we like lived in this apartment complex, a new apartment complex, and I had no problem with my landlord, anything like that, or the people I lived beside or anything like that. And you would have thought that I would have, but I didn’t. I didn’t. Matter of fact, my supervisor Mrs. Grey was a good women, I loved her. She treated me with respect and I treated her with respect.

	W:	Great.



	S:	The only problem I really had was I in a small town. Well, that was small town, too, but the hospital was larger than this area, so maybe it was because it was





more city like than a small town. Maybe I would have had more problems if I was in a small town.

	W:	So, coming back to this, to the event that we are at today, what does this event mean to you?

	S:	The culture that we’re trying to distill in the younger ones. You see, if we don’t tell them, they will never experience what we experienced in childhood. And we’re trying to give them a taste of what we grew up with, because a lot of those parents are way too young to know what we experienced, because the school was closed by the time their parents came. The younger ones will know, because they’re here now, but their parents and when they have parent staff, we had different years. But they didn’t have any experience of going to school here, having the teachers, having the teachers that cared for us, and having the mentors that we had. Because when I stepped in the door I was so glad to see Mrs. Wyatt, and I hadn’t seen her in years, but when I saw her some of the memories came back when I was in the classroom. And Mrs. Wyatt, I see her all the time, and we talk and memories come back of when she used to take off to Jacksonville to charm school. We called it many things. My friends and I get together, “Do you remember when we used to go to charm school?” Really they were called charm workshops, but, “Do you remember when we used to go to charm school, Mrs. Wyatt?” “Oh yeah, I remember.” They were our mentors, and they had culture and were educated, and they cared about us and I’m trying to guess—that’s all. I just feel like if ya’ll give something back, our culture will survive, because it is a culture, but a lot of our kids don’t remember we had





entrepreneurs in this community. We had a theater here. As a matter of fact, my mother worked there. She ran it after. We had a drycleaner right here, right around the corner from where I lived. We had our own store that sold cut meat, and eggs, and greens, and strawberries, and all the little local things that we sell. And you could go around the corner and buy all of that, but now you can’t do that. But, those children have no idea about community life. And I miss that, because that’s all I knew when I was growing up. And it was similar to what you would have in the North, only it was different, too, because usually in the North a little White man behind the counter that—a little Jewish man that ran the one across the street, but down here it was right in your neighborhood. But you didn’t have such things like the fountain sodas and that kind of stuff. And that was in—

	W:	Here in the South? Or you didn’t have that kind in the North?



S:  No, you didn’t have that right here in this community. You’d have to go uptown, across the track, and get that. But you better not sit on that stool. You’d have to stand at the end of the counter and get it and take it out.

W:   Uh-huh.



	S:	See that was the mistake I made. I slide up on the stool because I didn’t know any better—but I learned quickly.

	W:	I’m sure. After that experience I would learn, too, I think. During high school or even middle school or during your childhood, did you also learn to provide for your family? There was mentioned of some students had to pick strawberries and things like that. Was that something that happened during your school age as well?





	S:	My momma taught school, she was a teacher. So, the only time that I ever like, picked strawberries or—well I begged to go pick pecans one time, and I was the older then. And she said, “You don’t want to do that.” And I said, “Yes I do. It’s a lot of them going, and I want to go, too!” And she said, “You don’t wanna do that.” And I said, “Yes I do.” And she said, “Go ahead.” [Laughter] Well, I did. I stayed all day, and I made twenty-five cents.

	W:	That’s not even a lot back then, huh?



	S:	I didn’t know back then and I didn’t—I was not good at it. Well, the rest of them didn’t make what, a dollar? But there wasn’t a lot of money and you had to work hard to get that money. But, when the man dumped out my pecans, I had some with shells on them and they don’t count. I went home, she said, “I told you you didn’t want to do that.” But Mrs. White and her sister she was telling you about the strawberry patch, and I would go out with my mother and pick those. And usually you didn’t pick those, but when you do, I picked them for use at home, so I did that. But as far as having to go out and pick or work and bring them home to the family, I was fortunate enough not to have to do that.

	W:	Was that different compared to maybe your classmates and your peers? Would they have to work and maybe you were just fortunate no to have to?

	S:	Yes, I was fortunate than some of them. W:	Right.

	S:	A lot of us were more fortunate than some of them, because, like they said, some of them didn’t come to school until ten or eleven o’clock which is—for that reason. They had to get their things out of the field first and then come to school.





And a lot of them didn’t come at all sometime during season for a time. Like when the oranges were—it’s time to pick the oranges and that kind of stuff, a lot of time they missed a lot of labor. But, the teacher helped them make up that time, so they could go to the next grade.

	W:	And that was in RJE? Or in Bradford? S:	Uh-huh. At RJE, in this school.

	W:	And how was that?



	S:	I don’t think they would do that.



	W:	So, was there a real experience like that where some of your peers did have to work during the day? Where they allowed to come to class or into school over at Bradford?

	S:	Usually if they had a hard shift, and it came to school and the family, they just dropped out. They would just drop out and not go.

	W:	So, it was just easier to like drop out than to ask for that excuse? And that happened to a lot of your peers?

	S:	Some of them, yes.



	W:	Only males, or some females, or?



	S:	Some females, but mostly males though because we had some—maybe ten or twelve, and usually it was the oldest one that had to help provide for the family. So, the oldest one was the one that usually dropped out, and they went off to assist the family, and the rest of them went on to school.

	W:	And so, if the older son went off to work, would the same happen with the next son? Like maybe his brother?





S:  It depended on if they had another one coming into school, then he’d have to. Yeah, but if all of them were in school and the oldest one could make enough money for all of them and still come, all of them still came until they graduated.

	W:	Okay. So, was it better or worse, scholastically speaking? Was your education at a better caliber over at Bradford, do you think, versus the education that you received at RJE?

	S:	I think if I had graduated at RJE I would have done differently in my career. W:	What do you mean?

	S:	Because, like I said, part of the time when I—the ninth grade I went to, well, that first year I saw that, and like I said it disappeared into the wall and you could do that because if you were just there and just…I just got by. I didn’t push myself and nobody pushed me, but my mom began to notice that. So in the tenth grade I got a little distracted, then in the eleventh grade she started paying attention because it got real close to graduation and she said, “No, no, no, no, you are not sixteen. I don’t want wanna see no more C’s on this report card.” But, I think I would’ve because she would have been alerted long before that if I hadn’t been here, because I was upset because I wasn’t here. I wanted breakfast in school, and I was upset that it closed. So, in the ninth grade I didn’t do like I knew I should.

	W:	The idea of college and going off to a University, how was that introduced or maybe lack thereof to you?

	S:	They told me I wasn’t, I didn’t have that. W:	Who’s they?





	S:	The colleges.



	W:	Overpressure, right?



	S:	Uh-huh. They used the phrase, “You are not college material.” So— W:	Did you ask for an explanation as to what that meant?

	S:	No. I sort of had an idea of what they were trying to say. And I told her, I said, “I’m going to the military anyway, somewhere I can pay for my own education.” I did that for ten years, because my brother was in the service. Early in life I decided that I wanted to serve, but at that time I had planned to make it a career. But I met my husband and he said he didn’t want me to—parked up anymore after his tour was over, so I didn’t make it a career in the private sector in the medical field. But that was something outside, because I knew for our marriage to work I couldn’t decide because there was no way for me to be in the military and him not have some parts of it, because eventually it would come a time where I’d have to go, and he wouldn’t come or we’d have to separate. I knew that. If I chose to be with him I’d have to let that go.

	W:	And going into the military after high school, was that common for your peers? S:	No, especially for the females in high school. They tried to talk me out of it;

anything from “Ugh, you know nothing!” to “Lesbians to death.” And I said no. I talked to the man; he told me that most of them will be straight women. Don’t tell me that, ‘cause I talked to him, and I asked him.

	W:	And was he right?



	S:	Yes. You see, there are straight women out in the private sector; you have everything. This is something I have learned over the years. There is everything





in the prison that’s outside, because it’s a combination of outside. Everything that’s outside is in the military because it’s a combination of outside. So, you have a little of everything in there, just like you got a little bit of everything out here. In the prison system, you got a little bit of everything in there, because you got a little bit of everything out here. So, I’m not gonna say, “No there aren’t any in the military,” because I’d lie, but they’re not all like that. No. It’s quite a few women that are dedicated to the military and they are all women. I mean, all woman. I learned a lot. I think I made a good choice to do that, because it made me who I am, and I’m thankful for what I learned.

	W:	So, I asked you what this event meant to you, but I want to know is there anything that you want to go ahead and add? I don’t have any more questions right now so I don’t know if you want to, after our interview and the panel that you are a part of, is there anything you want to add that you feel this interview cannot go without?

	S:	That this event and this place has a lot of history and a lot of culture. And it reminds me of the culture from African Americans, and the teachers, and how they instilled in us who we were and how important it was. And I wanna instill that in our young people and I believe that it’s important to pass the hope. That’s why this annual event—and I hope it gets better and better. That’s important. And the babies can’t go without knowing, because this is who they are. And the media, and everything else, tries to tell them who they are not. We’re telling them who they are.





	W:	Okay. Thank you very much for being here and doing this interview with us, doing the panel with us, and I hope you have a great day. I hope you enjoy the event. Thank you.

	S:	Yes. Thank you for coming. W:	Great.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Lisa Mueller, September 19, 2017 Audit-edited by:	Jennifer Romero, February 6, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019