AAHP 159; Mayo; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 159 John Mayo

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Andre Everette on January 16, 2011

26 minutes | 13 pages



Abstract: John Mayo was the president of the Columbia County NAACP at the time of this interview. He was raised on a farm five miles outside of Lake City, Florida, and he missed a good deal of school growing up because he and his siblings had to work on the farm to keep it going while their father worked at a sawmill. They also would sell firewood in the winter. He talks about race relations under Jim Crow segregation in Lake City at that time, and the fear his mother experienced when he joined the NAACP as a teenager in the mid-1950s. He also talks about the need for the NAACP at the time of the interview, and his reflections on ongoing issues with racism in the US.





[Keywords: African American History; Columbia County, Florida; NAACP]





















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 159

Interviewee: John Mayo Interviewer: Andre Everette Date: January 1, 2011



	E:	It’s January 16, 2010 I’m Andre Everette, and I’m at Mount Pisgah at a Twenty- sixth Anniversary Observance of Dr. King, and today I’m speaking with—

	M:	The president, John Mayo.



	E:	President John Mayo, and could you spell your name for me please? M:	J-O-H-N, M-A-Y-O.

	E:	Okay, and when and where were you born?



	M:	I born here in Columbia County, approximately five miles, let’s see, northwest of Lake City. On a farm that my granddaddy bought, some 900 acres, about five miles from Lake City back in the early 1920s. He did a lot of farming, so after he passed the farm went down to his children. My daddy had only one brother, that lived on the farm. My daddy and his brother lived on the farm until they passed. They done passed so now the property, most of it’s still in the family, we still own most of it but it passed down to the family. But there is just no money in farming so mostly anytime a [inaudible 1:25] and grown up really we don’t do much with road crop anymore. We just raised a few livestock and that’s it. But planting them peas and corn and peanut and tobacco and cotton, we don’t do that anymore.

Back in the early [19]50s all down through the [19]70s we were planting quite a bit of that property.

	E:	Could you tell me a little bit about your childhood? What schools did you attend, here in Lake City?

	M:	I attended the school north of Lake City by the name of Brainbrier Junior High School. I went to school, I say from the third grade to the ninth grade, probably





would amount to probably about four years of schooling because my daddy kept me home quite a bit because I had to work on the farm. My daddy was working at a sawmill and I came from a large family so he said that we, the kids, had to carry the farm on while he was working there bringing the income daily—I mean, weekly. Because the farm income is like slow; the tobacco crop once a year, the cotton once a year, the peanut once a year. But most times we had vegetables to sell year-round. My dad always had something to sell. We also sold wood during the winter, cause back then most people had fire places with stoves. So we sold a lotta wood, we done a lot of cutting wood during the winter, and done farming during the summer and the spring. So my dad kept me busy, but I would say that I’m blessed and lucky I supposed because I even get a good background education, but I had really made it. I only worked two jobs in Lake City. I retired, I worked thirty-seven years and nine months at VA hospital. My first job at Howard Johnson’s. I worked there until I redrafted into the military. Then I returned and worked three more years at Howard Johnson’s, ‘cause I worked at the VA hospital full-time and Howard Johnson part-time, at the time. And I worked at the VA hospital for thirty-seven years and nine months, so I retired in May of 2000.

	E:	How were race relations here in Lake City while you were growing up?



	M:	We in Lake City, we didn’t have much of a problem, I would say that. We would read about it. Probably why I got so involved with the NAACP as a teenager back in the mid or late [19]50s, I just read about all the problems the NAACP will have fighting for people rights and justices in the south. Up in Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, I mean it was very disturbing to me. So I joined in the NAACP—I





wanted to do my part—due to the fact that I couldn’t go up there, so I joined the NAACP and my mom almost had a fit. She thought surely we were going to be running the town. When that membership card came through mailing, she was thinking the White mail carrier perhaps was a KKK member. And that really frightened the Black people back then. His name was Sam John, a White male carrier. She would tell me, “Now, you know he probably a Ku Klux Klan member and they going come and burn the house down tonight.” But we never had any problem. My grandfather is well known, you know well off by the 900 acres, he have a brand new car, he bought a brand new 1946 Plymouth. So, if you were well known, and kinda, you know, I guessing in the kinda in the upper class, you were treated that way because our neighbors were very nice to us. It was never no different. We had our neighbor come visit; as you visit them they want you to come in their house. Even though back then it was a thing that Black people were not supposed to go into White folks’ houses. Not the front door, if you go in you must go through into the back door. And we had White friends that we could play with—on Sunday cause my daddy worked mostly six days a week and sometimes seven days a week. But he did have a little free time on Sundays. My daddy was a very religious person, at first he would not work on Sundays, wished he could have Sundays off. But eventually he looked around and saw all the White farmers just out in the fields working on Sunday. So he said it must not be long ‘til we start working on Sunday in the field.

	E:	And when did you become involved with the NAACP?





	M:	Definitely in mid [19]50s when I joined. I was a teenager when I joined, and membership was only $5 a year, when I joined. And nobody had to tell me anything about paying for a membership because I read the how important the NAACP was and what they stood for, so that’s why I just wanted to do my part.

	E:	Was it common—



	M:	I had no idea that I would get so active. When I first joined, I wasn’t elected I was elected by the president as the treasurer. So I held that position, probably I don’t know about twenty-some years as a treasurer. Then they elected me as vice president. Then I went from vice president to president. They kept wanting me to be the president over the years, I kept turning it down. I was trying to tell them I did not have the level of education. I felt that that I should not be the president. I just felt that I would not qualify because you have to go before different people. But I have done quite well. I have met with some attorneys, I have met with judges, I have met with different supervisors, different businesses, I have filed EE complaint [7:46], taken it all the way to court. I have represented employees in the presence of federal judge. And have won cases and have settled on some cases rather than go to court.

	E:	And when you first joined, was it common for other young people to join or?



	M:	Well you had to beg them. No they wouldn’t come because—I don’t understand I, I don’t understand it. I recognize if people knew our history I believe we would have people in line waiting to be members. We have to beg for membership now. And people will ask you “what do y’all do? Tell me something y’all do.” You know all this being in the paper all the time. You know how Black people—I guess you





maybe you don’t, you don’t understand—Black people don’t like to read. They always said you wanna hide something from a Black person, just put it in a book. Black people in Lake City, you know in the afternoon you will see them come home from school, you don’t never see them stay in the house, they already out in the yard, out in the road, most times they like to be in the roads playing, in the Black neighborhoods. You go down any street you gonna see a bunch of Black kids in the street, so that’s why we lie so far behind. They don’t like reading, for some reason. I guess the parent don’t insist them. But nobody didn’t have to tell me, when I went to the Army, when buddies go downtown and drink and all, I would go to the library, to read, ‘cause I don’t drink, I don’t smoke. So I just never had time for that and I read so I educated myself. And I know it’s very important, the NAACP is an important organization. You would be surprised the respect that we have, that we had even back then. I worked on a project by the name of Thomas Shepperd [9:38], I worked on a project named Earnest Cool [9:42], and way back then we just had to make with the director sometime of the VA hospital. I was the vice president, so I be in the background; I love to be in the background, I could support someone in the background. I’m not an up-front person. Now I could take a case to court and be a judge that don’t bother me at all, but a program like this, I’d be so nervous. I’m just not an up-front person, but I could support somebody in the background. And I be hoping, I be begging them to get somebody every year for election. And now I’m getting too old for this.





	E:	Now you mentioned that reading is one of the problems in the Black community, so what would you say the NAACP is doing to try and change that, or to try to deal with that?

	M:	Well now, we talking about trying to have some workshops set up. We have people that would be willing to volunteer to come in. Now like she announced about the FCAT, we work with them. You know she say we support them. Stood up for the FCATs, that’s one way we try to help them. On Saturday, cause she did have an FCAT program to tutor the kids that are lagging behind, help them past those FCAT tests, yes. So, that’s one of the things we are doing. And we think, we’re trying to setup a workshop in the community but the thing about it we trying to figure out how we gonna get them there. Cause like now, the people that need to be here, they not here. I was trying to figure out how can we get the young people to a program like this, cause they need to come and hear this.

Most young Black people, they don’t go to church with their parents, they’re not like it when we were coming home, or like you coming home, I mean you know you probably stickup on yourself, you wanted to. But when we were coming home we had to. On Sunday that was it. You get ready for church. You know it was just the thing that a family do. And we just knew it, they didn’t have to beg us to go to church. We started liking going to church and we would get up, get dressed and go to church. And then another that could help families if they would sit down to the table, you know most families they never sit down and eat a meal together. Right here in Lake City you see most times they go into Burger King, Popeye’s, or somewhere, go into the store getting a bag of potato chips: a drink





and something for the kids. Parents, especially in low income areas, right here in upper class Black, they gonna take their kids to McDonalds or something. But we used to always stick to that table and eat together, and when I started my own family in the [19]60s, we always—when my daddy was up we gonna eat breakfast together, and every night we had supper together—and then when I would talk to my sons and my daughter at this table, I let them know what I would and would not accept. I would not accept you coming home and telling me you getting in trouble because somebody gets you in trouble. I used to tell them that, don’t bring that to be girl, I’m not gonna accept that. You’s an individual, you should’ve had just as much sense as the other person. So my kids, I could tell you the truth, two sons graduate from Columbia High and a daughter. No teacher never called me to come back there, because they behave improper. Because I taught them at home with a ninth grade education. And it’s so wonderful, I enjoy my son, my son left he went and had breakfast with me this morning, and left flying back to Maryland. He works with National Security Agency up in Maryland, make big money. Twenty-one years in the army. All my kids do very well because the upbringing. Look you can see these kids behind these—you only need to ride through the neighborhood. Have you ever rode through the neighborhood?

	E:	Not in Lake City, I’m not from here. [Laughter]



	M:	I know you’re not really from here but did you come here early enough to ride through the neighborhood and see. Okay, what happening? And where these people can live with their parents looking like that? It’s unbelievable. That’s what





I’m saying man. In when I saw one—I‘m well known in this area so people, a lot of people call on me cause I’m honest, and I’m straight up, so I get the approval from them and they got to know me so they adopt me, our family. So they went back home, back to [inaudible14:26]. And they done left me in charge of the store but somebody be working there, but I be working at that store too. And them kid come in there, one came in there the other day, and I spoke to him, “Oh man you went off and get grown now. Now you coming back smoking all that.” He said, “I just got out.” That means he’s been locked up. All his young teenage years been locked up and now he out and most likely he’ll wind up going back to prison.

Probably I guess he probably finished high school, but barely probably. This a sad thing, and you’re from Miami?

	E:	Yeah—



	M:	Well, I mean, I wonder how do you—cause you found something nice young man—so you were educated with parents kinda strict right?

	E:	No my parents weren’t necessarily strict; I don’t know I just—



	M:	Yeah but your mind do the right thing. I mean you could do that. You could—you come into the world, you’re supposed to have common sense. You’re supposed to know right from wrong. So you can tell—look what I did, I told my son I would never drink nor smoke. And people told me, “Oh you don’t what you’re gonna do when you get grown. I bet you when you get back from the Army you going be drinking.” My sons went to the Army, I told them they better not come back here drinking nor smoking and put it on the Army. So neither one of them drink nor smoke, today. I told them I’m not gonna accept it. Yeah I went to the Army, I





came back, I was not drinking nor smoking. I know that one lady they was scuffing in—my son was never called home or written home for money, this lady was scuffing man, trying to make it but her son always called her, or write her, asking her to send him some money. “I gotta go save my son.” I don’t understand it, during the same time my son in the Army. So yeah I guess it really is just how you raise your kids. I would tell my son that I would give me over, I would give myself over cause I thought I had that right technique to raising a family. But I told them Imma have to give them their own credit, y’all were just born with this good sense I guess. Because I never, I had no problems with them. Well my son was so nice, I bought them a car. I gave and put the key in their hand. But I always kept a key cause, I don’t take the car and they know they will get it back. I later had no rule, no restrictions, nothing. When they got to high school they were doing so well I though, okay. And they never messed up. And my daughter was eight years younger than my baby son, so she came along later. I bought her a car cause she was doing good in high school. Gave her the key, but I kept a key. She finished high school, then she went to Tallahassee. At FAMU she got a doctor’s degree in pharmacy. I gave her a key and I didn’t give no restrictions, I gave her a key but I kept a key. She had never drove out of town, she just learned how to drive around taking us everywhere. She got in the car, didn’t drive it like it was new anymore. Yeah her first year in college. So I bought the car in high school, so she wanted a new car. And I bought her a new car. And I never had no problems out of her. I never tell her when I coming to Tallahassee, I just go up there. And I never like my kid to tell me that I’m invading their privacy. I





didn’t play that. And my grandkids are the same way. I have beautiful grandkids in Daytona. One started acting up when he got to be a teenager. I take him to the side, I wouldn’t have nothing to do with him, I go there and barely speak to him, I take my little grandkids to go eat, stuff like that, go to Busch Gardens and leave him right home. And I love to hear, “Granddaddy he straighten up.” Now he a nice clean cut, just like you. Nice haircut, beautiful young man. You see, I just don’t tolerate that crazy, now, I don’t the feel the same like most people that you can’t raise kids like you used to. I don’t say that. Tell anybody, if I was young to start a family, now I guarantee it if they lived in my house they would turn out to be good kids. That’s just the way you have to do it. You don’t listen to other people, and all that raising your tot to read the paper and what they talking about you can’t raise kids. You can’t. My mom and daddy, my mom had a third grade education, but my mom talk to us, good lord, my mom was appreciative. She ninety-four years old, she can feel but she still at the bottom. If she wanna boss, she can put words together just to tell you what to do.

	E:	Okay Mr. Mayo, it’s been a very interesting interview and it’s been a pleasure to speak with you. I’d definitely like to speak with you again, on another occasion, but one final question before you go. Why is the NAACP necessary today, in 2011?

M:  Because we have not get there yet, buddy. We on our way. We haven’t get there yet, there’s still racism and there’s still discrimination going on, right here. But the thing that probably is, though, that a lot of Blacks bring it on themselves, really.

Most times Black people will come to me very proud with a case but always





wanna hear their side, and then I go hear the manager’s side of the story. And sometimes they show me their record. Why a person don’t get a promotion. You know sometimes they complain that I’ve been here much longer than Whites, and the White get promoted over me. Sometimes those people they have poor attendance records. You know it’s sad. The VA give out sick leaves, so I only get 8 hours sick leave to call in. And a lot of Black people be just the problem, and some of them before they get out of probationary period they lose the job at the VA hospital. Cause you know they don’t have to have a reason; they can just get rid of you. But with less than a year, but most of the problem that we having now is like job situation. That people feel that they’ve been mistreated, discriminated against, because of promotion. Being terminated, but they being terminated because their poor attendance, I mean I don’t know how tell them if you on the schedule—if they didn’t need you, you would not be on the schedule. Well obviously, I got the call in. But I work for years and years, I just had never seen my daddy take a day off for being sick. The only time my momma take off from her job was to have a baby. So I didn’t think, I actually I didn’t in my young day I didn’t think a man supposed to be sick. When I started working at the VA hospital it was strange to me that men would call-in sick, “I got a toothache.” It’s just cause I was not brought up that way. I couldn’t understand that. Why all my daddy for all those years working and he never stay home for sickness. I’m sure he probably ill sometime but he probably just go to work. And you’ll probably feel better, if you go to work instead of just laying around. [Laughter] I would tell anybody my daddy used to work and work and work. And we done it with





pleasure. We didn’t realize you know; it was rough really. But we always had plenty of money I would say that. My daddy always had plenty of money, but we always selling this and selling that. Always had something to sell. But my daddy did keep the home. So I get to the ninth grade and I just give up, I just, the teacher raising sand like it was my fault. Back then them Black teachers were something else. See, I didn’t go to no integrated school, it was segregated.

Brainbrier Junior High was just a Black school. And them Black teachers were rough. They were ready to whoop you, like it were your fault, stay home you have to do what your parents tell you to do. But, I made it. [Laughter]

	E:	Yeah you made it.



	M:	And every job I went on I worked my way up. I tell you I went to Howard Johnson, I had never thought of being a cook, but I went there as a dishwasher, ninth grade dropout, didn’t have no education and never worked nowhere but farm work. I went there dishwashing, I don’t know, three or four weeks; they said, “Ooh, we think you would make a good cook.” Then they put me on the cook line and they fired the cook. Cause I was better than the cook, you know? You had a young guy never know nothing about cooking. So then even though Blacks couldn’t even go out front, they wanted me to be the assistant manager. Way back then, there was no segregation, I don’t know what they’re gonna do. I kept telling them you had to take a test and I told my manager, I said, “I can’t pay no attention. I don’t have no education.” And he told, “Oh yeah, you going pass it because I’m going give it to you.” But when the supervisor came down and brought the test, he tried to get the supervisor to leave the table, he said, “No, no





I can’t leave.” His name was Mr. Rain from Miami, where Howard Johnson Headquarters was at the time. He said, “So I got to stay here until he completes the test.” But they never told him what I made on that test. I can imagine it was terrible. Because back then I didn’t have no kind of education. If somebody had asked what was ten percent of one hundred, I wouldn’t have known, cause I was never in school in this to learn nothing. But now, my kids, you know—I was doing farming but I was doing more like by myself. I never did make my kids stay home. For some reason I was really into their education. My daughter wanted to go to school, she got a doctor’s degree so I let her go down where she wanted to. I think took six years or something. She lived down in Jacksonville. So now you in college, what are you in, you in college or high school?

	E:	No I’m in college, I’m a third year student, yes.



	M:	Oh, okay. The opportunity there, so I’m sure you’re going make it. E:	Oh okay, thanks. And that concludes our interview.

	M:	Okay. [End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Megan Pitt



	Audit-edited by:	Juanita Duque, November 20th, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019