AAHP 181; Alford; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 181 Florida Bridgewater Alford African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Marna Weston on March 6, 2009 43 minutes | 26 pages



Abstract: Florida Airnetha Yvonne Bridgewater Alford was born in Nassau, Bahamas. She describes her family history, including the move from Nassau to Miami, Florida when she was in middle school, and explains that upon graduating from the University of Florida she was the first college graduate in her family. It was her high school soccer coach who convinced her to apply for college instead of simply enlisting in the US Army due to a lack of funds. The main focus for this interview is Mrs. Alford’s role in planning the events for Celebrating the Firsts, the commemoration from 2008-2009 of a number of the first Black students at the University of Florida to graduate from a variety of majors and programs. She describes the vision for the celebration, as well as the significance of it and of the people whom it was celebrating.





[Keywords: African American History; University of Florida; Integration]















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 182

Interviewee: Florida Bridgewater Alford Interviewer: Marna Weston

Date: March 6, 2009



	W:	Okay, this is Marna Weston for the Sam Proctor Oral History Program on Friday, March 6, 2009 in the office of Florida Bridgewater Alford at 111 Tigert Hall. And she is here with us, and thank you so much for allowing this interview.

	A:	Thank you Marna, it’s a pleasure. Thank you.



	W:	Well it’s just a pleasure for me. It was such a great opportunity to spend February seventh with you at Emerson Alumni Hall for the outstanding culmination of a year of activities celebrating the firsts. We’re gonna talk about that, but first I’m gonna collect a little background information. Because one day, who knows, a hundred years from now, someone might wanna know, who was Florida Bridgewater Alford. Could you please state your full name?

	A:	My full name, won’t give you all of the names but it’s Florida Bridgewater Alford. I have—

	W:	Now wait a second, I’m looking up here at the back of the science and journalism on the wall and there’s some other names up there.

	A:	I’m sorry. You know, the reason I did that, it’s a really good point. The reason I did that, I put all my names is ‘cause I was a first generation college graduate in my family. It was very important for us to document the significance. I have four names so it’s Florida Airnetha Yvonne Bridgewater.

	W:	Okay, now could you just spell Airnetha and Yvonne for us?



	A:	A-I-R-N-E-T-H-A. Yvonne is the common spelling with the Y. Y-V-O-N-N-E. W:	There’s very little that’s common about you.





	A:	Thank you, and then Bridgewater is my surname and Alford is my married name.



Right, and I wanted to keep my surname ‘cause it is a pretty distinguishable family name in Nassau, Bahamas where I was born. I was born there. We lived there for not a very long time. My father and his family are from there. They’re from the various islands in the Bahamas. Nassau being one, Freeport being another, and Cat Island and that is by way of England where my great- grandfather and great-grandmother kind of sailed the seas from England to that area.

	W:	Terrific. What’s your date of birth? A:	My date of birth is 10-3-[19]70.

	W:	Okay. And you were born in—Where was the exact place? A:	Princess Margaret Hospital in Nassau, Bahamas.

	W:	And who were your parents?



	A:	My parents are Marva Loubet. She’s Marva Butler Loubet and then my father is Roland Hezekiah Bridgewater.

	W:	Okay and I had the chance to meet and interview your mom at the gala and she is a delightful lady. She’s so proud of you. She’s so incredibly proud of you.

	A:	Yes. Yes. She is.



	W:	Do you happen to know their dates of birth and where they were born?



	A:	My mama is a Christmas baby. She was born on Christmas Day. Well, she just turned sixty last year. My dad was born also in December, the seventh, and I think at this point, he’s now sixty as well.





	W:	What do you remember about your grandparents? Could you tell us a little about your parents’ parents? Names, places, birth dates, whatever you remember.

	A:	My mom’s mom—no, I don’t know. My mom’s mom was born April fifth. I don’t know the year.

	W:	What’s her name?



	A:	Her name was Lucille Butler.



	W:	My grandmother’s name was Lucille. A:	Really? We called her Lucy.

	W:	Yeah, I lost her my first semester of graduate school.



	A:	You know what? I lost my grandmother my first semester here at the university.



	As a freshman. W:	Really? Yeah.

	A:	It was a kind of a transition, devastating, really transitional time. W:	No, I know what you mean.

	A:	‘Cause this was my first time away. Like I said, I’m a first generation college graduate so I was the first, my mother’s first child, I’m her only daughter and I’m the first grandchild. So it was a pretty major event when anyone graduated from high school. All my aunts and uncles, my grandmother’s children, graduated from high school. My mom went on to nursing school and at that time it wasn’t—it’s not your nursing school of today. They give you certificates. You qualified for certain areas like Licensed Practical Nursing and Registered Nurse. You had to go through certain certifications, so that’s how it was. It wasn’t like your traditional college. My mom did go away to school like in Kansas and Maine and then she





eventually went to Nassau. That’s how she kind of met my dad and everything. So when it all happened, I graduated from high school, it was a pretty major event, came here to the University of Florida, pretty major event. I’m in a huge university. At that time I think we had, maybe, about forty thousand students in [19]88. Major, major thing for my grandmother. My grandmother would write me, in her handscript. I still have—I went through my storage the other day to clean it out and I saw her letters and it just took everything for me not to just kind of get very emotional ‘cause I’m thinking wow. I remember the letters, I just didn’t know where I put ‘em and I didn’t think about it again until I saw them.

	W:	And it all poured out?



	A:	Really it did. I was like wow. She was just making sure that I was okay. She wanted me to be decent. She wanted me to be nice. She wanted me to be safe. It was in her voice. My grandmother did not go to college. I don’t know if my grandmother graduated from high school, alright. And my grandmother was my mother’s mother now, and I’m gonna tell you a little bit about myself right now. My mother’s mother was a housekeeper at a time when they allowed my grandmother to clean their houses. When it was time for my grandmother to eat her lunch, they would tell her that she had to leave. She couldn’t eat in the same house she cleaned. She had to eat in the garage. So understanding that, you understand a little bit about the drive that I have and that I had during this event and in this year. It was pretty emotional. Emotional in a sense that I was just very enthusiastic to do and just wanted to ensure that it was accomplished. ‘Cause it





could have easily gone astray and no one felt the need to go ahead and continue doing it.

	W:	My remembrance of the evening is that you were very composed, very enthusiastic, almost everywhere all the time and then at the end, you just kinda disappeared.

	A:	We finished it. We accomplished what we set out to do. Then on the other side of my family, my father’s mother is a granddaughter of the governor of the Bahamas.

	W:	What is her name?



	A:	My grandmother, Myrtle Bridgewater. Myrtle Moxie Bridgewater. She passed away as well. She passed away in [20]03. So you understand the difference in class. She was born in a time where she was pretty much, the island took care of her. We had—when I would visit—we had housekeepers, maids. We had people who took care of us.

	W:	On the one side of the family.



	A:	On one side of the family. Then when you come on my side of the family, we were just a working class family. We’d get out there and you had a job. You didn’t have homemakers. We were all, my mom and my uncles and aunts were working outside of the home. My grandmother was a babysitter while my mom was working double shifts at the hospital. That’s the kind of difference you see in my life. So it helps me with a little bit of balance and understanding of the hard work it requires, just to accomplish anything, just to reach your goal and to realize your





dreams. So, that’s a little bit about me. I hope I didn’t—I’m trying to remember everything you just asked.

	W:	No, it’s fascinating. Can you tell me a little bit about your earliest memories of education? Elementary school?

	A:	My mom was a single mom for much of my life. I went to Head Start. My mom was a very active mom, too. My mom was always in the schools, and making sure they knew her and you probably guess from interviewing her, my mom was someone—and she probably didn’t show this ‘cause she was all made up—but she’s a very vocal woman and she cared deeply for her kids and so she ensured, she wanted to make sure that we had everything that we needed while in school and that the educators were doing their job. The way that she did that was to make sure that she was active. So she would come in and do arts and crafts with us. She would contact the teacher. If she needed to pick us up early or we needed to leave to go to a doctor’s appointment or just to check in. To make sure that the teacher knew her and that the teacher knew that there was an open line of communication here. “If there’s any reason that you need to contact me, please feel free, I’m here.”

	W:	She was your number one lieutenant on the night of the gala. A:	She was?

W:  Because you weren’t available for the interview and we’re like, “Well, we need to practice,” so she said, “Fine, I’ll do it.” So she jumped right in and helped us out, too.





	A:	She’s still my number one lieutenant. My mom and I, and my brothers, of course, I have two brothers.

	W:	What are their names?



	A:	My brothers are—one after me is Jerome and then my youngest brother is Ramon.

	W:	Do they live in Florida?



	A:	They do live in Florida. One lives in Kissimmee. Jerome lives in Kissimmee with his kids. He has two kids. And then Ramon, he is a spokesperson for the Fort Myers Beach Fire Rescue. He is also a Gator. He graduated from the University of Florida with his undergrad and master’s degree. So he’s got that. My education, I went to public schools.

	W:	Middle school?



	A:	In Miami they called it, ‘cause we moved— W:	Junior senior high?

	A:	Yeah. We just called it junior high. Went to junior high school, public, and senior high school—

	W:	Which school was that?



A:  Was it Lake Stevens Junior High School? In Miami. And then my senior high school was American Senior High School which is in Miami Lakes. So I went there. Are you familiar?

W:   Yeah. They have a very active debate team and are really good in sports.



A:  Yeah, they were. They were really good in sports. I mean, however we could never win against Carol City but you know, we at least tried.





	W:	Very few do. It’s tough. A:	Okay, it’s tough.

	W:	What were your activities in high school?



	A:	You know, I wasn’t—I was, believe it or not, I was a very shy child. W:	You’re right. I don’t believe it.

	A:	I promise you. I was really shy. I was very shy. W:	I’ve met your mom now.

	A:	She will tell you. If you meet my daughter, you would—Some people think that my daughter, that’s how I was when I was young. But I was the complete opposite of my daughter. My daughter is very vocal. Only because I believe she has a mother who understands her voice and knows how to use her voice. That’s years of confidence building because I had a self-esteem issue problem. Believe it or not, just because I was the oldest, I was the only girl for a very, very long time. After me, there were no other girls for years and years and years. I would always have to—I was always the one taking charge and being responsible. The boys went off to their things and I was just kind of a loner most of the time because I had male brothers and then I had male cousins. So they would always go off when we’d go to my grandmother’s house. I was just kind of a loner, making sure they didn’t get into any trouble. But then, I never felt that I was like pretty enough or smart enough so I just kinda, you know, I was always by myself. I was smart enough to hang around pretty people, beautiful people, smart people. So I was always kinda in that group but never considered the person they would point out and say, “Oh now, she’s the one I want to go out with.” I was





never that. Unh-uh. No, believe it or not. So you come here today and you say, “No Florida, I don’t believe you.” But I promise you.

	W:	What are your kids’ names?



	A:	My kids are Simone, my six year old daughter and Rain is my eighteen month old son.

	W:	Okay, and your other family life? Your husband?



	A:	My husband? He’s born and raised here in Gainesville. He owns a business, owned a business for more than twenty-five years. He’s a barber and he owns a salon. He has three other brothers.

	W:	Now, does he have a name? You have not mentioned it. A:	His name is Roy. Roy Alford.

	W:	Okay. And a Gainesvillian. A:	Yes, he is.

	W:	So his roots are here and now you’ve established them as well.



	A:	His roots are here. His mom lives here, his dad lived here as well but he has since passed away. He passed away in the [19]80s. I never met him, never had the opportunity.

	W:	I’m very sorry for that.



	A:	But his dad also owned a shop, a barber shop, in the Porters community. If you’re familiar with Gainesville, you know about the older Porters community. One of the first Black communities I think here in Gainesville. I don’t know, I just, I’m thinking that because it’s now largely African American.





	W:	Well Gainesville has a lot of history that people don’t know about. There were Union soldiers here and all kind of the okie-doke going on all over here.

	A:	Right, yeah. I mean you realize you know back then, believe it or not, Gainesville on Fifth Avenue—Of course, you know about Fifth Avenue—had a flurry of Black businesses. My husband’s dad owned a business when probably in other cities, that probably wasn’t likely, a Black person owning a business. But he did. I’m happy to say my husband does as well.

	W:	How about the University of Florida? How did you end up coming here?



	A:	When I graduated from—My life story’s so funny. I was a junior at American and I was headed to the Army because I figured my mom could not afford to send me to any university, let alone the University of Florida. By my high school football coach said, “Florida, you don’t need to go to the Army. You need to go to the University. You’re too smart. You can do this.” I said “No, I don’t have the money. I don’t think so.” He said, “Okay, I’m gonna tell you what you’re gonna do. You’re gonna complete the application. We’re gonna get the letters of recommendation. We’re gonna do all this together.” And so, because of him, seriously. We completed financial aid forms. We completed all these scholarship forms. I had no idea. ‘Cause I told you, my mom didn’t know anything about applying to a college university. She was like well, “Okay.” She trusted me to go ahead and do something.

	W:	What was the coach’s name? A:	Charles Yanda. Y-A-N-D-A.

	W:	Okay, so you had mentors then?





	A:	I did, I did. I had a lot of mentors during my schooling. That’s what I’m saying to you, when you think you have low self-esteem, but you have people out there who see your potential and always kind of push you. When I was going from elementary to junior high, I had teachers who put me in special classes like honors classes. I had no idea. I didn’t do it, they did.

	W:	Who are some of those teachers that you remember having input?



	A:	Oh lord, Mr. Salahoudin, he was my science teacher. I had Ms. Williams. My third grade elementary school teacher, Ms. Moss. She wasn’t my teacher but she was my dance instructor ‘cause I did modern dance. I performed when I was in elementary, so we always had a performance. I did modern dance. I played an instrument.

	W:	What instrument do you play?



	A:	I played the piano a little bit and then I played the flute a little bit. Just a little bit.



Just a little bit. But then—



	W:	Okay. President Machen, Florida would like to do a flute recital for you.



	A:	No, no recitals. Let Simone do it. But then when I went to senior high school, those same teachers, like Salahoudin, Mr. Nard, my English teachers, and my science teachers, they put me in honors courses.

	W:	‘Cause it was combined juniors. So they knew your potential from sixth grade on?

	A:	Right. It was interesting. So that’s when Coach Yanda was like, “Well no Florida, you’re going to college.” I said, “No, I don’t think I can do it. I don’t know I can do





it.” He said, “No, you’re going. We’re gonna apply to all these places.” So I applied to Miami, Florida State, FIU, and UF. I got in Miami. But when I got the—

	W:	Too much money.



	A:	Yeah, it was too much money. Yeah, because they were calling me. Miami was calling me.

	W:	Everybody says the same thing about Miami. They want you but that scholarship only comes out to be like a third and a half.

	A:	Exactly. ‘Cause they were calling my mom, they were calling. They were like no. My mom was like uh. At that time, the annual was close to fifteen or seventeen grand. I was like no, we can’t do it. [Laughter] We’re fighting to get me a thousand dollars to go to school. So I got into UF. They got me a scholarship, Mr. Boatwright.

	W:	Mr. John Boatwright. [Laughter] And let me guess, Charles Harris, too probably. A:	Well, Charles Harris along the way.

	W:	Okay, but you got into the college.



	A:	He kept me in school. Dr. Boatwright got me here. It was a promising start. You know, I had some struggles during that time, during those years. But I graduated, and it was another man, Mr. Harris, who kept me here at the University of Florida.

	W:	Everybody knows CJ. Lot of lifelines. A:	Oh, that’s right, CJ. I’m telling you.

	W:	He pulled me through as well.





	A:	He pulled me through because he was like, “Okay, Florida.” I say, “It’s not looking good, CJ, it’s not looking good.” ‘Cause at that time, you had to apply to get into your college. They don’t do that now. You just walk in and you get in. Well back then you had to have a certain GPA, you had to—

	W:	And you had to talk to them, ‘cause they didn’t have to take everybody. Just because you had the grades, didn’t mean that you would get in.

	A:	So it was a serious situation. So he’s like, “This is what we’re gonna do. This is our game plan. It’s our strategic plan here, Florida.” That’s the first time I’d ever heard about a strategic plan, by the way. Even though I did with him right now all the time. [Laughter] He’s like, “This is how we’re gonna do it. Every semester you’re gonna take these classes. You gotta get, that’s all you can get, A’s. That’s it.” I was like, “A’s?” And so, I got through, graduated and started working at a radio station here, Magic 101.3.

	W:	Magic 101.3.



	A:	Yeah, and I was their office manager and traffic manager. So got some experience that way and the finally got an opportunity to work at the Gainesville Sun. Worked there for seven years in various positions from news researcher, obit writer to staffer.

	W:	You did it all?



	A:	Yeah, I was a columnist, I was a staff writer, and then I became their web producer which I helped basically with the website.

	W:	And you met Janine there? ‘Cause I know she came from the Bradford newspaper and everything so you both have that common history of working your





way up progressively through leadership. So let me ask you, these progressive experiences and your mentors and we’ll go ahead and move to Celebrate the Firsts, but I was just curious to kind of wrap this part up. What is your definition of leadership and how did these things develop the leadership that you have in you today?

	A:	Wow. I always keep these little things around about leadership and I try to remember them all. Leadership to me is being honest with yourself. And leadership to me is also working through an issue until success and not being afraid to work through the issue, being persistent. Persistence is key. And being positive. I think a true leader has to always be positive. You have to be hopeful because no should never be your answer. It should never be an option. I teach my students who I advise, I say, “You have a Plan A, that’s nice. But I need for you to have a Plan B and a Plan C if you really wanna get to it.” Because I truly believe that you always need to be looking ahead and looking past this issue and this problem. You always need to look at the bigger picture because it’s not all about us or me or you. It’s really about how you’re trying to transform whatever it is you’re trying to do or what you want to do. But within that, in that journey, you need to be persistent, you need to be positive, and you need to believe that you can change at any moment. Or change the situation at any moment. That’s why you always need a Plan B and a Plan C. So I mean for me, just a little thing, that’s how I think of a leadership.

	W:	No, that’s profound. I like that. A:	That’s how I feel about it.





	W:	It’s an original answer. I’ve heard a lot of different things based on the writings of others, but that was very internal and organic. So with that and leadership, we come to our discussion on Celebrate the Firsts. This incredible year that the University of Florida has had from February 2008 to February 2009 to the gala. I guess the first thing that I have to ask you is, how did the planning for this event begin and who was involved?

	A:	The initial communication from the president came in November 2007. The communication was, alright, 2008 FYI is the year which is the fiftieth anniversary of integration at the University of Florida. Now, mind you, the president has a History Advisory Council that is headed up by several people sit on that, including the UF Historian, Carl Van Ness. He was on our committee as well.

	W:	And a part of that evening, did a super job.



	A:	Yeah, he did. So because of that communication, the communication is basically, this is happening, what should the University of Florida do? What should we be doing? How should it look? What is the message about this anniversary? We have to acknowledge it in some way. How do we do that? And so, that came to me. As one of my projects through the year and what I determined from that, I said, “I can’t answer this by myself. I need some help.” That’s when the idea was we need to bring together some of these wonderful mind who could help us comprise this plan of what else. How do we acknowledge this and what do we do? Is it a one event? Is it an annual event? Is it an annual series of things? Is it just a one-time thing? So we brought together—When we did this, we had to bring some historical perspective to it. That’s why of course you have a UF





Historian. You have Joel Buchanan, who was our African-American Archivist. You have some of the Firsts on there. You have Evelyn Mickle, who was the first to graduate from the College of Nursing. Then you have some pretty amazing mind of Cynthia Chestnut who was at the university. She was one of the first in the state, I think the first African American women to be state representative in that district. The district she was in, I think it was twenty-three. Then you bring in other folks who can represent the faculty, and then of course, the students, many of the student involvement here. So you bring all these people together and that’s what we did. We started meeting January. At that first meeting we said, “What is our purpose? What do we want to do? What’s our objective here? What is it? Are we doing a one-time thing or what?” So of course, my great idea, I said, “Why not have—why don’t we just use this”—because there were certain dates we had to hit. It’s 2008 but the actual date is September 15, 1958 was the first day when George Stark walked on this campus as a College of Law student. Were we just gonna do something on that date? Then we said, the year really for UF, for any university, starts in that semester. Did we want to go to fall 2008 and then do something in that semester? So I said, “Why don’t we just go from February 2008, February 2009, start Black History Month and end.” And then from there— now mind you, we did not have any budget because we did not have any money. There was no revenue. We were not given money from the president. I know people were thinking, “Well they’ve probably got a nice bucket of cash.” No. No, sir. No, ma’am. [Laughter] We did not have—Once again, we had hope.

	W:	And a challenging mandate.





	A:	We did. It was challenging. But we had faith. And I kept them encouraged. W:	You had good partners too. The Alumni Association made the football game.

That was really impressive. That was something they had done before. It was nice to be able to put that in the package to show UF has done stuff in the past, too so that was really good.

	A:	We really did. Yeah. We did. We had some funds. And then it’s really nice to kinda work in this department, to work in University Relations because we have some amazing, amazing staff here. And we’re connected because we have to be connected to so many—All the communication materials that go out, many times are created in our office. So we have our video production partners in the stadium. We have our publications partners right across here in the next suite over who do our printing material, design and printing. So it was easy to kind of walk over and say, “Hey, we need your help. We’re thinking about—We want a video made. We’re thinking a video. We’re thinking a website. We want to do all of this.”

	W:	The website was terrific by the way.



	A:	Thank you. To communicate what we’re doing. So that’s what we did. We started with the video and we figured, where can we play this video so that we can get the word out about these activities? Going back a little bit, to February, we basically put out a call to all the colleges and said, “We know you’re already doing some things. We already know you had a budget.” Mind you, this is in the middle of a budget cut here at the university. So we weren’t asking people to add any extra money on top of this, we were asking, we know that you already have a





budget for lectures, visiting professors, visiting, just special programs. We know you already have a budget. We’re asking you to follow our theme here, and capture our theme. Use our theme for your year’s project. Or whatever special lecture you may have that year, you can bring it in on us and what we’ll do, we’ll promote it on our website. We’ll promote it on any other collateral materials we have. We will help you promote it and publicize it. So that happened in many of the colleges, like the College of Medicine came through. There were some other colleges. I can’t even think of them all. The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences of course. Then there were just other—and then of course, our student activities came through. So you have colleges and auxiliaries coming together.

	W:	Fine Arts was huge. Those performances were incredible.



	A:	Fine Arts, the play. It was just a lot going on and then of course Samuel Proctor Oral History Program just coming along and saying, “Okay, we want to be involved in this movement,” because as we all know, this became this movement. It kept gaining momentum and momentum as the year went on. That’s why I think that it was good to have a year. We did soft launch. You kinda get into the system and then you allow it to go through the vessels in your system and then by the time you get to a February seventh event like that, it takes over your entire body and it’s in there. It’s saturated all through and you truly feel how poignant and how fantastic it is.

	W:	I saw you left it all on the field that night. You left it all there. Let me ask you this, about objectives and goals. I like the way you talked about the soft opening and then it carried through. Was it a part of the overall vision in the beginning that this





is going be something that’s gonna carry on past February seventh and it’s gonna inspire others to do programs that will continue to celebrate the firsts? The reason I ask it in that way is a lot of people would say, it’s easy to celebrate.

There’s no challenge here. When we talk about a critical examination of the university’s history, the question is: It was a great website, it was a great event, it was a great year but what’s going to happen now? Do you think that it will carry on, that the message was salient, that students that are gonna walk on campus from now will be, oh yeah, these things have happened at UF?

	A:	Our objective was to acknowledge this milestone at the University of Florida.



Right. We did that. That’s why it was important to have the people that we had on that committee, like a Historian, Archivist, community leaders to say okay, where does the University of Florida go from here? What should we focus on and upon? How do we truly make ourselves an excellent university? Because, to be quite honest, and President Machen had said this, you cannot be an excellent university if you don’t have diversity. And that’s diversity for everything, that’s diversity of intellect, background, race, religion. You don’t have that, you do not have an excellent university. So with that said, then the historian said, “We need to document this history.” So that was one of the objectives, to document this history in a way that it is put somewhere where people can use it in their research, review it to help understand the story then to how we can make ourselves better today. And because this information, just FYI, was not documented. When I say this information, I’m talking about like who was the first African American to graduate? Really, some people may say, “Why does that





matter?” Well, in the context of, when we’re talking just fifty years ago, you’re talking about a university that plainly read in its constitution that it would only accept White male students. It’s important to document those type of—to document that era and what was going on, because it helps us move past it too. To acknowledge it, to discuss it and to remember it as well but I think that’s the only way—and to address it, and then that’s how you grow and move on from it. If you don’t acknowledge that it happened, if you don’t address it in some way and say, “Well these are some of the mistakes that we’re going on.” Then how do you fix it? I mean, how is it fixed?

	W:	I was at Gator Growl this year and I was sitting next to Debbie Wasserman Schultz over here and the gentleman who was the Attorney General of the State of Florida, I can’t remember his name but you know, wears his glasses, very memorable face and everything. They showed a picture of people—

	A:	Bill McCollum?



	W:	Bill McCollum. And they showed pictures of different people. They showed George Stark. And you know how people like clapping for everybody and they say George Stark and everybody got quiet. I stood up and I was like thinking, oh yeah, Celebrate the Firsts, I was the only person standing up. And I was just wondering if I had a picture of Virgil Hawkins on campus, how many students would recognize him and so I see what you’re saying. How is this thing set up in such a way and was that even the goal? Because your first goal, as you said, was to acknowledge and to document so those were obviously well achieved.





Were there further goals that you think fit within UF’s diversity mission or is it now something else? A continuation?

	A:	It is. Surely, I would hope that it is a continuation. I sit on, as you know, the diversity council for the university and of course, we have several goals in that as well. We’re still a really new group trying to get through our objectives and goals and our meetings first before we say, “Okay, this is how we’re gonna go about accomplishing these goals.” But, it all has to come together to a greater focus and a greater picture, I think, when we talk about where do we go from here and putting all this in a context for all races and all diversity, all diverse people and religions can understand and relate to. ‘Cause in the bigger mission for UF, we want this university to reflect the population of the state of Florida, first. And then here soon, I think 2012, when the minority will be the majority, we definitely need to make sure that this university addresses the needs, addresses the values, and all those requirements of a diverse population.

	W:	And all those are reflected in the Council on Diversity minutes.



	A:	Right. You have to address this. That’s what you have to do because every, like we’ve learned in the past, every population, they don’t require the same things. If we don’t address and understand that there’s populations that require different ways to communicate, different ways of teaching and learning, different ways of how we interact with one another and what kind of social criteria is involved, that’s when we’re not being true to truly addressing these populations or these diverse groups. That’s how I feel about that.





	W:	Is it fair to state then that this whole thing starts with, first the legislature gives us our goals of what we’re supposed to do and there’s federal guidelines, but ultimately in November 2007, President Machen gives a charge that your office becomes a part of and that it spreads to the Council on Diversity which acknowledges what UF’s goals are and states those. Then, the Celebrate the Firsts became another program but it reflects not only the Council on Diversity but also the president’s charge.

	A:	I would agree with that, wholeheartedly. I don’t think I could have said any better, Mr. Weston.

	W:	Well let me ask you just a couple things about your social activities here at the University of Florida. I see, of course, the outstanding pearls, I see those. But also I see that you have recognition of the ladies of Alpha Kappa Alpha Incorporated. I want to know if you would talk about that organization and your connection with it as a leadership organization and just your goals about it at the University of Florida and internationally.

	A:	When I started here at the University of Florida in 2001, I became the graduate advisor for the undergraduates here at the university. In our organization of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Incorporated, there is a position in the graduate chapter called a graduate advisor. Its role is to supervise and manage the undergraduate chapter. That means you could be serving as a counselor, mentor, business manager, social chair, you’re guiding these young ladies to greater leadership roles and to instill in them the importance of giving back to their communities, whether it be here in greater Alachua County or wherever they may end up after





they graduate here from the university. So I had the awesome opportunity to do that. I did that for four and a half years. Three out of those four and a half years, I won graduate advisor of the year so I’m pretty proud of that. It was a rewarding position. These young ladies do amazing work here at the university, in the university community by giving back, teaching kids to read, giving to the homeless, teaching technology issues and information to our elderly population and to those other at-risk populations. So, they’re doing some amazing things.

They’ve gained knowledge across the way on trying to improve their leadership and outreach capabilities and understanding the importance of their responsibility as being a member of this sorority. We’ve been here for a hundred and one years now and you can read about us in the paper, in books, and on the website. But it is in the action of all the ladies who continue to be active in the sorority, whether it be undergraduate or graduate, that you will find true commitment and dedication to improving their communities. So, I’ve enjoyed it. I continue to serve. I’ve served as grad advisor, vice president of my graduate chapter, Ivy Leaf reporter, so I am currently a chairman on the executive board. So, I am pretty much entrenched into my sorority and I’ve enjoyed every minute of it. I continue to do so. I’ve been a member for now, going on thirteen years.

	W:	Outstanding. A:	Thank you.

	W:	Well I want to thank you for the interview. It’s been incredible talking to you about Celebrate the Firsts, about your background. I hope I have the chance to chat with you again and to receive reflections from you. Before the end of any





interview however, I always know there’s something that maybe I didn’t touch on or something you’d like to redirect, a part of the conversation or something you’d like to end on, so this is my way of thanking you for the interview. But I’d like to encourage you to at this time, have whatever extraneous remarks that you might like to have to wrap things up from your frame and at the end of those comments that will complete the interview.

	A:	Well, thank you very much. This has been a great honor for me. I’d like to say this and I appreciate you giving me the opportunity, but this whole year has been an honor. It’s been an honor for me to work with the folks I’ve worked with on our fiftieth committee because they did an amazing job. They kept me encouraged as well as I kept them motivated an enthused about what we were trying to do and making sure that we do right by our honorees and that was very important to me and to them and just so that you’ll know for your listeners is that what we were trying to do was honor the first African American graduates from each college.

We did not find all of them, but that gives us a seed to continue our search for them and to truly honor them in the most appropriate way because I think that you’ll find the honorees who we did get a chance to meet and greet and make good on were appreciative. And they’re still in awe about what the University of Florida did for them on that very night. They said that they were overwhelmed. I think you listened to some of them. They were overwhelmed with emotion but they didn’t know what to expect but they certainly didn’t expect what they encountered on February seventh and that was all in a good way. I continue to hear great comments from them and acknowledgements and I’m just very proud.





I’m truly, I was inspired by them because if it weren’t for them, I wouldn’t have been here as well. So thank you.

[End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, November 29, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019