AAHP 683; Stanley; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 683 Eurydice Stanley 7-7-2019 Interviewed by Ryan Morini on July 7, 2019 87 minutes | 33 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Dr. Eurydice Stanley discusses her life as an African American girl growing up in Paso Robles, California and moving around with her family, as well as explaining her early experiences attending Florida A&M University, an HBCU, and later serving as in the US military. Dr. Stanley describes the prevalence of racism and racial discrimination, as well as her activism and community work to promote diversity, acceptance, and inclusion. She mentions her work with Diversity Connections, Equal Opportunity, and as an officer for the Public Affairs Detachment and other military training programs, as well as describing her personal life. She discusses the grief of losing family members to suicide, her mentor-mentee relationship with Alice Dixon, a member of the first all-female, all-Black unit to fight for the US in WWII, and her experiences raising children in Pensacola’s school system. Along with her past, Dr.

Stanley provides insight into her hopes for the future, leaving us with a message of hope and a call for unity.





Keywords: [Black history, military, diversity, desegregation, racism, Florida]



AAHP 683

Interviewee: Eurydice Stanley Interviewer: Ryan Morini Date: July 7, 2019

	M:	So, this is Ryan Morini with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. Today is July 7, 2019, and I’m here at the Chappie James Museum in Pensacola with Eurydice Stanley and if you want to—no, no, you’re on the—

	B:	Oh. Teniadé Broughton.



	M:	Okay. You’re part of this too. That’s okay. Yeah, so, thanks for joining us today. B:	It’s my pleasure.

	M:	Can we begin with when and where you were born? S:	I was born in Paso Robles, California.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	It’s a small, little town that’s now second to Napa Valley in growing, in being a vineyard.

	M:	Okay, okay. And is that where you grew up, or—?



	S:	Actually, my father was in the military as well, so we traveled around the world until my parents divorced. So, they divorced when I was in Bamberg, Germany— but we went all across the country and then about third grade, went back to Paso Robles, and I was reared in Paso Robles from there, from the third grade on.

	M:	Okay. So, is that kind of home to you? Or was—? S:	It is.

	M:	Okay, okay. Are there any memories or stories that kind of stand out from that early period while you were moving around that you would want to share?

S:  Well, my father was Airborne and Green Beret and pretty much I remember him and the other daddies getting up on the roof and jumping off and practicing their landings, they call them PLFs. So, I thought that was normal until my parents





divorced, and then I realized that other daddies don’t go up on the roof to practice their landings.

	M:	Yeah, that seems like it would be a bit of a revelation. S:	It really was—[Laughter]—it really was.

	M:	And so, then you ended up back in California, then? S:	Yes.

	M:	So, what do you remember from your hometown or what you regard as your hometown, I guess?

	S:	Paso Robles is a quaint, little town. We have something called Pioneer Day and we have parades, and they serve beans in the downtown square, and everybody gets a bowl of beans and bread, and have all kinds of tractors on display; it’s very quaint.

	M:	Well, so—



	S:	And they still do it.



	M:	Okay. So, it’s a continuing tradition there.



	S:	Yes, yes. Pioneer Day is a big deal. [Laughter].



	M:	Fair enough. Have you gone back to it since you moved away?



	S:	Yes, I went back for my thirtieth high school reunion and we went to Pioneer Day together. It was nice.

	M:	That’s cool.



	S:	And then we had our reunion, of course. M:	What—well, yeah, I would—

	S:	Yeah.





	M:	So, yeah. What were your experiences like in school there?



	S:	Well, there weren’t many African Americans at my school. There were even fewer when my mother moved us to a place called Shandon, which had about three hundred and fifty residents, and it was a primarily agrarian-type society. So, I was the only African American in my high school, and my brother was the only African American in the middle school. And so, I actually have a high school yearbook with my face on a monkey, and it says, “Just monkeying around,” and my father about had a heart attack when he saw that. And I dealt with a lot of racial issues, but I overcame them to become the class president in my second year, I was the high school cheerleader, and I was the lead cheerleader; however, it was always a fight. It was always a fight. And that's probably why I always worked so hard in equal opportunity to try to lessen that fight for the next generation.

	M:	Yeah. I mean, did any teachers kind of stand out as mentors during that time, or were there any people you can kind of—?

	S:	Well, one of my teachers—I’ll never forget—he was so proud of me when I tried out for—’cause we did—I tried out my freshman year ‘cause I was a cheerleader in my middle school and I came from a very large middle school and I was class president, just everything, the it girl in middle school, to move to this very small town that was smaller than my school. And I will never forget my teacher saying, “Oh, that was tremendous, Ms. Stanley”—Ms. Stevens, Stevens is my middle name—“that was tremendous!” And regarding my audition and then I remember him getting the results and he said, “Oh, Ms. Stevens,” and I just remember





being very hurt at the time, very hurt. But like I said, the next year I was able to



prove and become a member of the cheerleading squad.



	M:	I mean, that is a trial.



	S:	Yeah, they had a hundred percent membership in Future Farmers of America before I got there.

	M:	Wow.



	S:	And I blew their state average because I didn’t join Future Farmers of America— [Laughter]. But I did join Future Homemakers of America and went on to even do some regional and some state type activities, but because I’m a joiner, but I just couldn’t do the Future Farmers. And there were a lot of—like, I’ll never forget one of my classmates having a black dog and they named that dog Nigger, and they taught that dog to hate Black people. And I’ll never forget sitting after school and that dog was growling at me, just, you know how a dog will [growling noises] underneath his breath. And I’ll never forget, she kept slapping him on the nose saying “Nig, shut up. Nig, shut up.” And she never understood how significant that was to me. Yeah. “Nig, shut up. Nig, shut up.” So, but the thing that finally got me out of that school—I was there for two years—I was in a speech contest and we had to study some type of nuclear, it was a nuclear topic. And you know when you do the best compared to the other people that were there, and you know you did the best, and so, my mom was there and she was just really proud and—[cellphone rings]—sorry. The person who was in charge made it clear that whoever won, the next person would give them their research so that they would represent the county the best, and I was really thinking, “Well, this guy didn’t





have much research, but I’ll take whatever he gives or whatever.” And I remember them announcing him as the winner, and they gave me a dictionary as the runner-up prize. And that dictionary had ‘nigger’ in that dictionary. And I will just never forget the principal saying to my mom, “Oh, we just love”—Britney was my nickname then—“we just love Britney.” And my mom said, “You better love her now, ‘cause she won't be here next year.” And somehow, she found a way to get us into town for the next two years, so that I could graduate with Paso Robles and attend Paso Robles High School, which was a much larger high school.

	M:	That’s intense. So, was it mostly a good transition to the Paso Robles High School, or—?

	S:	Well, I felt like I was behind because here I had spent two years at Shandon and Paso Robles was much more, a much more advanced school. But thankfully, I was able to still do well, and I received the Army ROTC scholarship, and that’s how I was able to go to Florida A&M University and enter the military. Because when you sign that contract, you are officially in the military. So, if I didn’t do well in school, I would’ve been enlisted, if I had dropped out of school, I would’ve become enlisted. So, I knew that I was on a mission, and I worked very hard to do the best that I could.

	M:	Well, so one question. Had you already been thinking about the military before that, or was that kind of like—?

	S:	Not at all. Not at all. I just knew that, as a child of a single mom, I knew my mom could not afford to send me to college. And I was really desperate to go to





college and to take care of my family, take care of my mom and my brothers. I had my brother Queue and my baby brother Aaron. My baby brother Aaron was thirteen years younger than me; it was like I had to have a child at age thirteen.

	M:	And what was the college conversation like growing up? I mean, did your mom say you had to go or did you just—?

	S:	No.



	M:	Where was the—?



	S:	No. That was pretty much me. M:	Okay.

	S:	Yeah, that was pretty much me. I knew about Florida A&M because my father had gone and my grandmother had gone to FAMU, and there were other members of our family who had gone. But we were separated, you know, with the divorce, and I just didn't— I just knew that I needed to go to college to make a difference in my life. And I had been working at Kmart, which was the Walmart of the day, and some of my friends, we had a plan if I didn't get a scholarship that we would work at Kmart, get enough money to go to community college, and then go to college. And thankfully, I got the scholarship, because I go back home and there's still friends that are still working at Walmart.

	B:	Did Dr. Humphries recruit you?



	S:	No, no. President Humphries was the best president FAMU has ever seen—Dr.



Frederick Humphries—and he came in right before I did, so I was one of the freshmen when he was—it's interesting, because I got there in [19]86, and so we have like, three years that claim being Humphries’ freshmen. But it doesn't





matter, we all love him, and we would do anything for him. He's amazing. And he is the one that really put us on the map and started getting National Merit Scholars and really recruiting top academic students. And now, if someone wants to go to FAMU, you have to have a three seven; the average of the freshmen coming in now is 3.7. So, it's really, really something.

	B:	I just talked to FAM graduates, asked them about the Humphries era, which was, I guess, from [19]80—

	S:	[19]86 to—



	B:	And my class was the last that—freshman [19]97, class 2001 was the last— S:	2001.

	B:	And they are very proud people. [Laughter]



	S:	Very proud, very proud, yeah. And I will never forget, we had our freshman orientation, all the girls wore these white dresses, and he said, “You’ve had to prove yourself everywhere else.” He said, “I already know you can do it, now just go do it.” And I did it. I got a three eight that first semester and was inducted into a whole bunch of honor societies, and that set me up for success until I started dating [Laughter]—someone who was a member of a fraternity and—

	B:	Which is why he also says, “Look to your left”— S:	“And look to your right.” That’s right.

	B:	Somebody here four years won’t be here—[Laughter]— S:	That’s right. That’s right.

	B:	He gave us the same speech every year.





	S:	Yes. But it was, he was right. But he was just absolutely fantastic—and I was on the campus court for three years, in different roles, so I was able to travel with him, with the court, and we recruited students for Florida A&M.

	M:	Wow. Okay.



	S:	So, he would say, “Who got a certain score on the ACT?” and someone would raise their hand and he’d say, “You have a four-year scholarship to Florida A&M.” And it was just life-changing to see that student just respond, and their parents, and it was just beautiful. Just beautiful. He was incredible.

	M:	To backtrack real quickly, so, you decided on FAMU because your father and grandmother had gone there? Or did you—?

	S:	I had been given a scholarship that said I had to go to a historically Black university—

	M:	Oh, okay. Okay.



	S:	And I only knew Howard and FAMU. And I had visited FAMU before, one time, one summer with my father when he drove us down to visit Grandma, because Grandma lived in Plant City, Florida. So, we stopped through Tallahassee, and I just remember seeing the buildings and thinking how beautiful the buildings were at FAMU. And—

	B:	It's a different world.



	S:	It is a completely different world. It's a completely different world. And so, I chose FAMU. I mean, think about it: Florida or DC? Come on now—[Laughter].

	M:	Yeah.





	S:	No snow? Yeah. And that's all I knew about it, but it was the best decision I ever made. And we had the best ROTC program, so that set me up for success because Colonel Ronald M. Joe was the professor of military science—he was Lieutenant Colonel at that time, and he went to college with my father, he was in ROTC with my father. So, he was the Cadet Commander, and my father was a Cadet Major. So, he held me to a much higher standard than the other cadets. And I'll never forget, reporting to his office, he never even looked up. He just kept writing and he said, “Your auntie and I hear that you've got a boyfriend who's the senior?” I was a freshman, that's when I was dating that fraternity guy. And he said, “You need to rectify that situation.” He never looked up, he never looked up. That is the one thing that I did not do that he told me to do, but—which I should have done because my GPA went straight into the hole—but everybody, you have to have those experiences in life. Yeah. But he was the only one who ever made the military seem glamorous. He always had incredible cars, and he was always sharp in uniform and always squared away and expected us to be squared away as well. And the other military influence there was Colonel Bernard Hendrix, who was the Dean of Student Activities. And he was a former professor of military science, and he pledged Omega Psi Phi with my father—well, he pledged my father, I think. And he was always so supportive, and always so incredible. Just, I remember going to him and—because my father had said, “You got a three eight?” And I went to Colonel Hendrix, and I was just in tears, like I had let him down. And Colonel Hendrix was looking down and he was going like this, and I thought he was just enraged, but he was laughing—[Laughter]—he





was laughing. He said, “Do you know what kind of grades your father had?” He said, “I am so proud of you,” he said, “You keep it up.” And I did. And he is the one that encouraged me to enroll in Who's Who among American colleges and universities, and I was most—I don't know what the thing was—most outstanding senior when I graduated, and I was senior class president. He just encouraged me—

	B:	Miss ROTC.



	S:	I was Miss ROTC, Miss Junior Intendant, Miss— B:	Sorority.

	S:	I pledged Beta Alpha, Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Incorporated, and White and Gold Honors Society by the Sigma.

	M:	Wow.



	S:	My mother said that my major was social butterfly—[Laughter]. B:	You were the overachiever in training.

	S:	Yeah.



	B:	And we see that in Grace.



	S:	Yes, yes. And she said Grace— Grace is my daughter, and hopefully Grace will attend Florida A&M as well, so we'll keep it going. But we’ll see.

	M:	So, if I can ask what was it like to go to an HBCU after having been in, like, the situations in California where—?

	S:	It was life-changing, it really was. Going, attending an HBCU, it was the first time I was in the majority. And it was the first time that I didn't—now, it's not to say that I didn't have challenges at FAMU, because I did. I sound like this, so there





were some who thought I was trying to be a White girl. My eyes are hazel, my hair was long, and so, I had some folks who pushed back against me, but for the most part, I was just really accepted. And it was an opportunity to just relax; I was just surrounded by peers. I was not the only one of a particular racial group. I might have been the only one from California, but that was a different distinction. That wasn't a distinction that had years of racism attributed to it. So, it was really—it was really something; it was just the best experience I could have had. And there were a lot of things that I had never been exposed to because I had not been in a predominantly African American community that I learned about when I went to FAMU. When I first went there, I struggled with a lot of different things, but by the time after my first year, I was good to go—[Laughter]. Actually, probably after my first few months because I pledged Alpha Sweetheart, and so I was one of the sweethearts to the brothers of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Incorporated. So, that was a great experience, and we had step shows and just, we supported them with their events, and it was just a great experience.

	M:	It sounds it. Had you had a lot of Black professors before you got to FAMU? S:	No. No.

	M:	Okay, so that—



	S:	No, and that was a whole ‘nother thing, to have. I mean, I had professors who— another thing was I didn’t date in high school because I was basically raising a child. So, FAMU was my test to start learning how to date and that’s really not something that you want to—[Laughter]—it’s not ideal learning dating at FAMU. But I actually remember getting a boyfriend very quickly just to get people to stop





grabbing me, ‘cause especially the football players, the football team, some of them would just grab you just because. And when I was grabbed and I was holding the hand of this little freshman boyfriend I had, I knew that this was not, you know, going to—was not doing what I needed it to, and shortly broke that off and focused on my school.

	M:	Well, that’s—yeah. That’s [inaudible 25:06].



	S:	I started out in the School of Business and Industry— M:	Okay.

	S:	But after my first year, I switched to public management because financial accounting had taken many students out, and I knew that I was not strong in that. And I knew that I only had four years with this scholarship, that scholarship is—

	M:	Right, the time limit.



	S:	Yeah, you have a time limit. But what ended up happening was I actually ended up staying five years and getting a Life Gets Better Scholarship at FAMU, and through that, I was able to get my certificate of labor relations. And because of that, I was able to get a scholarship to the University of Minnesota to get my Master's, and I received an educational delay. So, I have almost twenty-eight years of service between reserve and active, but twenty for retirement purposes. But I have nearly twenty-eight years affiliated with the military.

	M:	Wow.



	S:	And one July, I've been retired five years. So—



	M:	That’s impressive. Well, you were gonna say something?





	S:	No, it’s just been good, I never really thought—'cause I saw what my father went through, and I mean, we went out to the field with my father and that was when the MREs used to have those peppermint—it was, they were peppermint, like, chocolate-covered peppermint cookies or something—and they would give us those things and there was, like, a laxative in them, and my mom would be so mad because—[Laughter]—we would be so sick. But I just remember going out there and watching him do all that crazy stuff with his unit, and then I never guessed or assumed that I would be following his footsteps, but it was—like I said, the only way to go to college.

	M:	Well, sounds like it worked out. S:	Oh, absolutely. Absolutely.

	M:	What did you think of Tallahassee as a whole? Did you get out into the city much, or out into [Inaudible 28:01]?

	S:	I was frustrated with Tallahassee because they acted as though FSU was the only school in Tallahassee, and that was very irritating.

	M:	Yeah. Clearly you had seen some racism in California, but Florida has its own kind— was there a transition coming to the south where it’s like, there’s kind of a—?

	S:	You know, I will say that Pensacola is much worse than Tallahassee, and I didn’t know it. I didn’t know like, for example, that they refer to Pensacola as the “Redneck Riviera.” So, this was my last assignment here, my last duty station, and my children had moved every two and a half years and they asked if we





could stay so that they could put down some roots, and that's how we ended up staying here. And we've been here eight years now.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	But there are a lot of things here that are not ideal, to include the school to prison pipeline. And now that my son has turned the corner from cute kid to what someone might perceive as a problem, you know, that's scary for me as a parent. So, I think they're working on that now, but—and now my daughter is in high school and so she's getting ready to start her junior year, so it's uprooting her when she's settled, and she's in a great program—it's a biomed program, she wants to become a doctor, so she's learning all kinds of pre-med stuff—so it's hard. It's hard to find that balance, but they definitely have roots now. [Laughter].

	M:	Well yeah, Pensacola’s interesting. I mean, it’s so close, I know it’s so close to Alabama and it’s kind of far down the panhandle and there’s just something, I mean, do you see any unique kind of opportunities here too, or is it mainly—no?

	S:	I have just been grateful to give my kids some stability, but the schools here, I've been in real challenge because my daughter is always in the gifted programs, but the other programs, just the regular schools have had very poor grades, and that impacts my son. And yeah, I would like to put him in specials schools, and they really just don't have them. So, it's a challenge. You know, you're trying to accommodate both children, it's hard.

	M:	That sounds hard. Does this feel like home to you now, or is it—? S:	No.

	M:	It’s where you live, kind of? Or—?





	S:	Yes. It’s where I’m raising my children. There have been several incidents that have been pretty significant, and I just try to focus on raising my children. We try to participate, and I was giving free Equal Opportunity-type training classes in the community, through my nonprofit. So, we're still trying to give back and trying to make a positive difference and be involved where we can, but my primary goal is just getting my kids through school and giving them [inaudible 33:10].

	M:	Can I ask about the nonprofit? Just what you—



	S:	Well, I don’t have it anymore; it was the Transition Foundation, and our focus was to help people deal with change. I found that when I was transitioning from the military, I was having to deal with a whole bunch of things that I just was not, I didn't feel that I was prepared to do so. And I knew that I had even more preparation than most, because the military was providing me that and I wanted to help others. So, we did different programs like essay writing competitions to have students tell their parents how much they love them, particularly their moms, and we gave their moms gifts, and we did different presentations in the community. But in the past three years, I've lost three brothers, and I have just been so overwhelmed by grief. Actually, it’s four years now, tomorrow will be the funeral of my first brother who passed away. The first one died from a massive heart attack. So honestly, I did not plan on living here this long, but I just lost time because it seemed that all I could do was breathe in and out for a while. And eleven months after my first brother died, my baby brother—the one I raised— committed suicide, and he served in the military. And that was so overwhelming that I have no words to describe it. And when people do, like, twenty-two





pushups a day for the twenty-two service members who commit suicide, they just, there's no putting words to what it means to a family who has lost someone to suicide. It is a thief [35:58] —and to know that your loved one was so hurt that they would make that decision, and I just wish I could reach out to him and know that—like, I knew that there were some challenges. I wanted him to come and live with me and to go to UWF—they had some programs for service members to get certifications and things like that—but I never knew that it was as significant as the final decision that he made. So, I grieved my baby, and we're trying to come through on the other end, but I honestly have just lost years. Just, just a blur of grief, mostly.

	M:	Yeah. That’s a lot to say the least. S:	Yeah. Yeah, it’s a lot.

	M:	I mean, if I can ask: since so many family members have been in the military, do you recommend it as kind of a career choice to people or what would you—?

	S:	I think there are situations that are taking place today in 2019 that would make it very challenging for me to encourage someone to send their child to serve. There is an expectation that leadership would do whatever is necessary to protect that soldier, and to not use that soldier as a prop or to fulfill their personal goals and desires. And I think what's most critical is, of course, protecting our country, but ensuring that our country is led in a way that is focused on — that's upright and honorable and not self-serving. And that is, that would be my biggest concern in telling someone, you know [39:00]? But I, of course, I benefited immensely. And I think that they, I'm sure they would as well, but there is a lot involved, and





that—the commander-in-chief sets the tone for what happens in the services. And especially working in—having a background in Equal Opportunity, you have to have someone who is in charge who wants to level the playing field and to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to do their best and to succeed. And I'm telling you, Charlottesville was a game changer in so many respects, and just the comment of, “There were good people on both sides.” You know, when I served as an Equal Opportunity advisor, and if I was dealing with a sexual harassment case, it's not, “There's good people on both sides.” It's, you know, you got to address the issues as they come up, it's not, “She’s not my type.” So, it makes it hard to make policy and to make policy stand when you don’t have the leadership that is backing it. I’ve been blessed to work for some outstanding men and women who walk their talk, and I would just want a levelheaded leader who walks their talk if I was encouraging someone to send their child to go serve.

	M:	I think that’s understandable. If I can ask, how did you get involved with Equal Opportunity?

	S:	I was such a blessing. My Master’s program was at the University of Minnesota, it was second in the country, and I was in industrial relations, the industrial relations program. And while I was there, I had the opportunity to study abroad in Leiyang for an international business program, and I also had the opportunity to participate in a program called Diversity Connections.

	M:	Okay.



	S:	And we spent a year addressing all different types of oppression and learning how that impacts an organization as a whole. So, for my Master’s, for my thesis, I





looked at disparity between men and women in the workplace, and when I went to my first duty station, I found out about Equal Opportunity and served as an Equal Opportunity representative. And they were overstrained at my first base, which was Fort Polk, Louisiana. Fort Polk, Louisiana is really something— [Laughter]—I will tell you, and I had the opportunity—the only reason I knew about DEOMI was because Colonel Joe, who was the professor of military science at FAMU, was in charge of DEOMI. ‘Cause otherwise, it’s one of those best-kept secrets. And so, I wrote a letter requesting to serve, and thankfully— my background with Diversity Connections and the work that I had done in diversity and serving as a brigade Equal Opportunity representative—they let me come on staff and I served for five years at DEOMI. And that was the biggest blessing, ‘cause while I was there, I also was able to obtain my PhD. And it’s where we train all the professionals who address disparity in the military. And they go through a—it was sixteen weeks then, I think it’s thirteen weeks now—all that time of addressing their personal biases, becoming aware of them. And so, as small group facilitators and as instructors, we were presenting information to them that oftentimes they were not aware of because they learned it from their parents, and from their grandparents, and these are just social morays that were accepted, and their values they had to really take a look at what created their value system. And, “Is this something that I really believe, or is this something that grandpa told me?” And we addressed all different types of issues: socialization, racism, discrimination, institutional discrimination, affirmative action, all of these different types of classes helped the students become aware of that





which they weren’t before so that when they went out into the units, they would be able to help commanders to see what was going on within their units. So, they became the subject matter expert.

	M:	Wow. Well, that, I mean, that sounds very meaningful.



	S:	It was, it was outstanding. After a couple of years on the platform—that’s what we called the main instructors—they put me in charge of the mobile training team, so I traveled around the world. So, we went to South Africa after transformation, and that was incredible. And I have a book that’s signed by Nelson Mandela.

	M:	Wow.



	S:	Yeah. [Laughter] So, I didn’t get to meet him personally, one of the generals took it to him and he signed it, but I just, it was—went through Panama, throughout Europe, throughout the United States training senior leaders, you know, taking the training that we brought in at DEOMI and providing it over a two-day period, giving these leaders exposure to something that they had never, that they weren’t aware of. And also, before a senior leader could become a general officer, they had to come to training at DEOMI so that they would understand issues like aversive racism and implicit bias and how these things impact leadership. And how, for example, you can have two soldiers, two different races, receiving two different types of non-judicial punishment for the same offense. So, it’s just making them aware, opening that window.

	M:	Yeah. And has any of the training and experience kind of helped you since you’ve left the military? I mean—





	S:	Yes, I still do EO-type training and diversity consulting, and I wrote a book with Elizabeth Eckford of the Little Rock Nine called The Worst First Day: Bullied While Desegregating Central High. So, we took her story and told it for the first time from her view, and this was sixty years, you know, since she had experienced what she did at Central High, Little Rock Central High, being the first to attend Little Rock Central High to desegregate the school. And we talk about what she experienced from the perspective of bullying, and how that bullying, how that has an impact on a person for the rest of their lives. So, it’s an anti- bullying effort.

	M:	That’s powerful. S:	Yeah.

	M:	And so, you have your own oral history experience, I guess, as well. S:	Yes.

	M:	Apparently, yeah.



	S:	Yes, yes. We wrote the book; it’s been out for a year. We’ve received the Moonbeam Multicultural Non-Fiction Book Award, we just won the Indie Author Legacy Award, and we’re very proud.

	M:	Doubly so. That’s great. So, I know this is kind of a vague question, or maybe just a big one—but what would you like to see for the future? I mean, you’ve kind of commented on the current moment which, for my part, I’ll just say is abysmal in terms of leadership and where we’re at. I mean, there’s, it’s easy to say, but sometimes it’s just amazing at this point to see the news and realize, like—





	S:	Every day, I open my eyes and I wonder what I’m going to see. And I would love for us to get back to a state of normalcy, you know, boring would be good again—[Laughter]—you know? Things just operating to the point that you’re not thinking about them, it’s interesting. That’s what I would like to see.

	M:	Yeah.



	S:	Bring back boring [Laughter]. Bring back normal. Yeah. M:	That might become a campaign slogan, we’ll—

	S:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	M:	Yeah. And, I mean, you’ve mentioned the school to prison pipeline and other things that—are you involved within your work in dealing with that kind of thing? Or is—

	S:	No. I used to be. Some things happened, and I had to take a step back from some of those things. And one of the biggest things that happened was, of course, losing the boys. And I found that my tolerance for foolishness was very, very low. It’s very low. And when you are going to school board meetings and listening to the hyperbole, it's just foolishness. It's just foolishness. And then after the Parkland shootings, we had a county—was it a county commissioner? We had an official refer to the Parkland students as—what was the word that he used? I don't want to, I don't want to… but it was just so disrespectful, you know? So, just the thought that these children are trying to stir up trouble because they want to see guns out of the schools. And I'll never forget reading an article that compared the Parkland students to the Little Rock Nine, because the Little Rock Nine were seen as stirring up trouble trying to desegregate schools. But keep in





mind, this was 1957, the Brown v. Board of Education decision was made, the Supreme Court made that decision in 1954, and then schools still weren't enacting it. So, it's not to say that the Little Rock Nine were doing something that they weren't supposed to be doing. This was passed three years ago, and they were actually set up to not be successful by only choosing ten students initially, and then it went down to nine, but hundreds applied. If you were serious about desegregation, then you would have taken the hundreds, you wouldn't have just taken a few. And they were subjected to all kinds of abuse: physical, verbal, mental, they went through it all. But they did because they knew that what they were doing would impact the next generation. So, when you look at students in school now—I mean, I will never forget getting a text message from my child, and she was telling me that they were on lockdown, and that there was a threat of a shooter in at one of the schools, and I'm texting her, asking her, “Where specifically are you? Where are you right now?” My heart is in my throat, you know, I mean—and then going to the school board meeting and them saying that there was no active shooter. Okay, but what—that's this time, what about next time? What is being done? What is specifically being done to protect these kids? So, it was just so frustrating and scary as a parent, you know? This is a very precarious world and you want to protect your child, you want to protect your family, but it shouldn't be that my protecting my family puts your family in jeopardy, you know?

	M:	Yeah.



	S:	So, it’s just crazy.





	M:	Yeah. Unfortunate, but probably a pretty fair assessment. Well, so I don’t know how much time you have, we’ve gone for about an hour, but I did want to backtrack. Is there a story to how you got the name Eurydice?

	S:	Eurydice was a muse, she was the wife of Orpheus, god of music, and my mother saw “Orfeu Negro” before I was born, and it’s a beautiful film and—have you seen it?

	M:	I have not, I’ve heard of it, but not, yeah.



	S:	Yes, yes. It’s a beautiful film, and Marpessa Dawn played Eurydice, and she loved Marpessa Dawn, so I would either be Eurydice or Marpessa, and she chose Eurydice. Thankfully. I love my name.

	M:	It’s a beautiful name, yeah. S:	Thank you.

	M:	[Inaudible 57:26] sure. Okay, yeah. Yeah, so, what would you like to say about your experiences in the military or where—?

	S:	I’m very proud to have served. I'm proud to have served as the Equal Opportunity officer for Lieutenant General Roger Schultz, and in that capacity, I conducted Equal Opportunity training for him, and he got it. I mean, that was an experience where you have a leader who put the work in behind the training and tried to ensure that there were opportunities for all. And that was really, it just—as I was saying, it was exciting to be a student under Dr. Humphries, it was exciting to work for General Schultz. He really was just dynamic. And I was in Washington, DC., I was at the Army National Guard Readiness Center, September 11. I was supposed to be at the Pentagon that day, and people kept deterring me from





where I thought I was supposed to be, which is where the plane hit. And I'll never forget the speech he gave us; I mean, he was, just the epitome of what a leader is. And our world changed, you know, and I remember coming out of the building, coming around the corner, and seeing the black smoke coming out of the Pentagon. I mean, it makes me tingle to think about it. And just the rally of the country and so many Americans saying, “Thank you for your service,” and so many service members just being laser focused and doing whatever needed to be done. It was a unique and uniting time in our country, and one that I hope that we come back to. I mean, it was really, really something. In my last assignment, when I served here, I was the reserve component advisor at DANTES, the Defense Activity for Non-Traditional Education Support. So, it was my job to encourage servicemembers to get their degrees while they served, and while they had these educational benefits. But unfortunately, some folks just figured that they were going to serve forever. And we were in the middle of a drawdown [1:01:08], I mean, shortly after I took that position, and that made the job that much more pressing, because just whole units were being drawn down. It wasn't necessarily just onesies, twosies [1:01:29] of individuals, it was that too, but I remember because I was traveling across the country giving presentations on how they could use utilize their benefits, and I was also gathering quantitative and qualitative data to try to find out why they weren't, and I remember one service member writing, “Just too lazzy, I guess,” and he spelled lazy with two Z’s. And I said, “This is the problem, you know, this is one of the problems.” And another problem was that some of the leaders were seeing soldiers who were





going to college as being—who had to leave to go to a class or whatnot, even though a lot of the classes were at night—but as them not being dedicated. And you’ve gotta be kidding, this gives you a better service member. You want a service member who is as sharp as they possibly can be, and these classes, that's what will do that. So, it was exciting trying to do that, but it was very, very frustrating. So, I also worked as a commander of the 107th Mobile Public Affairs Detachment, and we were first responders for eight hurricanes back-to-back from 2004 to 2005. And I was the deputy, public affairs for the state of Florida, so we were being pulled one place after another—I mean, it was just back-to-back-to- back, and all I could be focused on was trying to make sure that my family was out of harm's way while we would go. And it's very interesting, you know where the hurricanes gonna hit, so you go there ahead of the hurricane to be positioned to help after the hurricane, but you're not really sure where the hurricane is gonna hit. So, I mean, there were just many a night where the wind—I mean, it was just, it was really something. And then we would be handing out supplies, and—I'll never forget this person saying, “Well, do you have something else?

Because it's hard to open these”—the MREs—and I just remember thinking, “Lord, please never let me get to that place where I'm not grateful for”—I mean, because the effort to get these soldiers here, to have folks handing out water, handing out food, trying to make sure that folks were—because the whole goal in – everyone when you are told to leave, please leave. You know, that's the first thing. But for those that don't for whatever reason, sometimes there are mitigating situations, but sometimes folks just don't think it's gonna be that big of





a deal, and then when it turns out to really be something, those service members are putting their lives on the line to make sure that you're squared away. And I take my hat off to the Florida National Guard. I've seen them do some incredible things, and I'll never forget flying over and seeing a house where—because sometimes you would have little tornadoes that come out from the hurricanes— where a tornado had just sort of gone right through the middle of the house. You had the two sides on either side, and then just a straight line, and everything that that family had was just spewed [01:06:03] out behind the back of the house. It's just absolutely incredible. And as a civilian, it's been interesting being on the other side, preparing, getting out, trying to figure out what it is you're gonna grab and where you're gonna go, but I can't stress enough how important it is to go, you know, to get out of harm's way and come back later on.

	M:	Yeah. Well, Pensacola seems especially at risk in terms of— S:	Yeah. Yeah, that’s the Gulf Coast.

	M:	Yeah. Okay, excellent. I don’t want to take up too much of your day, I don’t know what [inaudible 1:06:59]. Did you have any other military stories you wanted to share or is that—?

	S:	No, I think that’s—oh.



	M:	Oh, so we do have Alice Dixon.



	S:	Alice Dixon was a member of the 6888th Central Postal Directory Battalion, and they served during World War II. And she was my mentor, and I am just so grateful to have had the honor to listen to her and be encouraged by her.

	M:	And how did you meet her? Like, what was the—?





	S:	It was through an Equal Opportunity event—no, no, it was, the first time the 6888th was finally being recognized, and I spoke with her afterwards and she was one of the few women who were staying at a VA housing facility—that was like back in 2000 or something like that—when was it? Maybe it was 2009. But now there are more women who are staying in VA lodging, but she was one of the few. She was a hundred and eight when she passed away.

	M:	Wow.



	S:	Hundred and seven or hundred and eight. And she had just a great sense of humor, you know? Just really—she was someone who made you think about joy. And I think that I’m—I know that I’m grateful for that, because we started an organization called Vet Honor Help Hope, and that was in honor of my two brothers and Ms. Dixon. And we had walks to promote suicide awareness and did different types of things. But she was, in particular, very proud of women who served, and if it weren’t for the 6888th who were the first African American, all- African American, all-female unit to serve during World War II overseas. So, the things that they dealt with was incredible, to include not even being able to use the USO [1:10:16], you know? So, the commander, Charity Adams, had to create their own USO [1:10:23] for her soldiers, for her service members. So, there’s a significant history, and that’s what people don’t know: the desegregation of the services and how that still has an impact. And if you can just look it up, the number of senior leaders who were against desegregation in the service, and who were adamant about it, about not having quote unquote negro troops over White service members. And I know people who, you know, they were supposed





to be deployed during the Korean War, but they were part of an all-African American unit, and they were—Edwin Nichols is part of an all-African American unit—and their leadership did not, they did not go to Korea because they would have had White soldiers reporting to them, White soldiers saluting them. And then you had so many soldiers who came back after World War II who were beaten just for wearing their uniform, you know? And here they had just served their country and were killed, killed! And we have a lot of stains that, unfortunately, have continued on. And it's only by recognizing them, and honoring them, and acknowledging them that we move past them. But it definitely doesn't happen by ignoring them.

	M:	If I can ask, sometimes people who speak in support of the military sort of seem to want to avoid or erase that kind of struggle, I guess. I mean, how do you reconcile—?

	S:	Yeah, it’s been interesting, I’ve had people say, “Oh, I served in the military and everybody was my brother, and everybody was my sister,” no. In the Marines, for example, they called women WMs, women Marines, and they had dark Marines and light Marines and, you know, it’s—when we went to West Point, the comment was, “Did you get any grey trow last night?” Everybody was wearing grey trousers, why are you referring to women as grey trow? “Did you get any”— I mean, that just baffled me—[Laughter]. So just any way to take a subset of the group and separate them and put some type of distinguishing characteristic— obviously, usually negative—upon them. It just, it didn’t make any sense. So, the goal is for—as Ms. Dixon wanted and as I want and as so many people want—





soldiers to be seen as soldier, service members to be seen as service members, and you are considered or reviewed for what you bring to—the skills and capabilities and your ability to do your job. And that’s the bottom line, you accomplish your mission, help someone else accomplish theirs, and go on to the next one. That’s the bottom line. And when we have people in—I’ve seen that meme “there’s no race in a”—gosh, now I can’t remember it, but when folks are engaged in battle, you know?

	M:	Oh, yeah.



S:  And it shouldn’t have to take that. It shouldn’t have to take a life-threatening situation for someone to be treated with dignity and respect. You put on that uniform, you should be treated with dignity and respect.

M:   Yeah.



	S:	So, that is just what I continue to work for and strive for, help people become cognizant of it so that they can end their own personal biases and their own personal—‘cause we all have them, everyone has them, the difference is when they act upon them and it detrimentally impacts someone and prevents someone from say, for example, being promoted. It prevents them from being selected for a position because they’re perceived as being, they’ll be a problem because they’re a woman, you know? I mean, what is that? You want to be seen as being a stellar service member who will do what needs to be done.

	M:	Yeah. Well said. I guess I should ask about—not sure if I’m reading this right, but Elizabeth Eckford?

	S:	Elizabeth is the person I told you about.





	M:	Oh, okay, okay, sorry. Do you have other community activism? You’ve talked about some of it, but—?

	S:	Yeah, like I said, we’ve just tried to stick in where we can and address issues.



The challenge becomes, of course, you want wherever you live to be as best as possible. So, you want to try to be as supportive as possible, and my focus, like I said, is trying to raise my children and provide support to the community. We've brought different people here, and helped to bring people here, and just to broaden people's purview and their perspective. So, that's been a blessing. And we want to try to continue to add value as much as possible. That's why we're here to support this.

	M:	Indeed. Do you see any hope in Pensacola in terms of things—?



	S:	Of course, there’s hope everywhere! I mean, there’s hope everywhere. I just know that my experiences have been pretty significant, and it's 2019, you know? I mean, that's just the bottom line, it’s 2019. And you just want folks to get it, yeah. You just want folks to get it, and this whole concept of going back to a particular era of time when certain things—I mean, the thought is, when you think of the efforts that took place through the civil rights community and the Civil Rights Movement, it's just dumbfounding. So, to say that disregards all of those efforts. And now we see so many efforts being rolled back, and that's very alarming, very disconcerting. So, it's a lot—especially, like, in in the military with the decision regarding trans service members, which is—there was such an effort with ‘don't ask, don't tell’ and other efforts afterwards to ultimately affirm service members who were transexual to have—the whole focus is, can you





serve? Do you do what you're supposed to do? Bottom line. So, to bring this whole other piece into it, it's incredible. And to say that you cannot serve is incredible. So, I remember having a service member—because I worked with sexual harassment, as well—and having someone be sexually assaulted and have a leader say, “Well, I'm not gonna worry about that, because somebody was playing gladhands [1:21:11].” And it was obvious that he had no clue how— this service member was in his own bed when he was assaulted by another service member. You have to provide a safe space for all service members. I've had women who were assaulted by other women, I mean, I've had, of course, men assault women, and I've had one woman assault a man, but the bottom line is does it take away from the culture within the organization? What is the expectation of leadership? What did leadership say as far as how—because gender is not supposed to be a function of that service member’s service.

	M:	Yeah.



	S:	So, if you are treating someone in a sexual manner, you are not in line with the expectations of leadership. And that has—that is completely different, that is as just a deterrent to the continuing efforts to ensure that we have more women serve in the military. Because if you see a woman, and the only thought is that she's just here as a—to fill some kind of need that you have? Wrong answer.

	M:	Yeah.



	S:	You know? You search outside of where you work for those types of—that has nothing to do with my responsibility when you are at work, period. And it's interesting to see people engage in behavior that has nothing to do with what





they're there for. Yeah, and it's the same in the corporate workplace, so if the expectation is that you do not engage in it, then you do not engage in treating someone in a disrespectful manner, or a subservient manner, or treat them as a sexual being when they're there to do a job, just like you. You know? So…

	M:	And I guess I have one more question. I guess to do this work you’ve had to be able to kind of speak openly and pretty directly about a lot of these issues. Was there a process in that? Like, how did you begin to feel comfortable to be able to kind of intervene in situations or be—?

	S:	I was very passionate about this work from the beginning, probably from some of those experiences that I shared with you from the beginning. Some of the experiences that I had growing up, and things that I researched, learning about the Civil Rights Movement, and just the overall belief that everyone can contribute. Everyone is part of the team, there is no looking at one member of the team as less than because of a particular attribute, and especially not anything that is protected. So, no race, no gender, no sexual orientation, no—you know, all of that. No religion—there is no reason for me to treat you differently because you may be Jewish, or because—anything that is protected. That's not my role.

My role is to find the best in you as I'm working with you. And that's what I try to encourage, that you see the best instead of seeing whatever stereotype that came to your mind when you saw this, if you're looking at me, African American woman. So I’ve met people who never even met an African American, and so they didn't know what to expect and they just went back to what they had been





taught growing up. Then, and thankfully, some of them changed their views because that wasn't the case. It wasn't the case at all.

	M:	I guess this is a good place to close. Do you have any kind of final thoughts you would want to put on the recording, or—?

	S:	I just think it’s great that you all are collecting these memories and hopefully it leads to more understanding and greater unity.

	M:	Thank you. Thank you very much. S:	You’re welcome.

[End of interview]





	Transcribed by:	Jessica Alvarez, May 17, 2021 Audit edited by:	Heather Halak May 21, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 24, 2021