AAHP 125; McCloud; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 125 Joseph McCloud African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Andre Everette on September 3, 2010 40 minutes | 16 pages



Abstract: This interview was conducted at the 2010 Black Alumni Weekend at the University of Florida. Joe McCloud grew up with four other siblings who were raised by his mother and grandmother. His mother always instilled that education was necessary for survival. McCloud participated in the upward bound program, which a program to better help high school students transition and adjust to college work and life. After arriving at UF, he quickly became involved with organizing and direct action. During his undergraduate career he helped lead rallies and marches, raised money for the local boys and girls club to reopen its doors, and helped start the Black Student Union. He was also a charter member of Omega Psi Phi fraternity and helped found the institute of Black culture. He was a participant in the Black Thursday protests on the UF campus. In his spare time on weekends he hung out on 5th Avenue and went to the bars and local clubs.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Student Activism]







































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 125

Interviewee: Joseph McCloud Interviewer: Andre Everette Date: September 3, 2010



	E:	My name is Andre Everette and its September 3rd. I’m here at Emerson Alumni Hall with Joe McCloud. Joe thank you for taking the time to talk with me today.

	M:	Not a problem.



	E:	First I want to start with a little bit about your background. What is your date of birth and where were you born?

	M:	Date of birth June 13th. I was born in Belton, Texas at Fort Hood. I grew up in Panama, Florida. Naturally being the [19]50’s, I remember “Black” and “Colored” signs, “White only” signs. My mom was a graduate of Florida A&M. She received her B.S.N degree. During that time they had Black hospitals and White hospitals. When she applied for a job at a White hospital they would tell her well we have to pay you nurses wages. My mom said, “No, I’m a nurse.” She worked at the Black hospital, Good Samaritan Hospital in St. Petersburg. Me and my siblings were raised by her mother, my maternal grandmother. My mom was big about education. I learned how to read by the time I was three. She went to the school board and asked them instead of putting me in kindergarten to put me in second or third grade. I tested above that, but they said no you have to go to kindergarten. It just so happened that my kindergarten teacher was one of my mom’s best friends. So while everybody else was learning their ABC’s I was reading other stuff and doing other things. In 1964 Manatee County, instead of integrating all the schools they came up with this thing called “Freedom of Choice.” So I was one of the first southern Black students to go to the formerly

all-White high school. Needless to say, that was one hellish experience.





	E:	How did the White students treat you?



	M:	I would get called the N-word. A lot of times they wouldn’t speak to me. At the start of the second semester, one guy that I’m still friends with. His name is Bill Burger. He was from Michigan. He was the first student to befriend me. I was in the college prep curriculum. Years later I found out I was the first Black student to take some math and science courses, they didn’t offer those courses at the Black school. I kind of ended up at UF on a humbug in that I participated in the Upward Bound Program. Upward Bound started in [19]65. In [19]66, I started Upward Bound at the University of South Florida. I had a lot of scholarship offers, but at that time I wasn’t thinking about college. I wanted to go to the vo-tech school to become a mechanic. But my grandmother said hell nah, you’re going to school.

So I told her I would sign up with the next recruiter that comes through. It happened to be somebody from UF.

	E:	Let’s backtrack just a little bit and go back to your family. What’s your mother’s name?

	M:	Her name was Josephine McCloud.



	E:	And you said you were raised by your mother and your grandmother. What about your father?

	M:	My father at the time was living and working in Pensacola. E:	His name?

	M:	His name is Palestine.



	E:	Your siblings, tell me a little about them.





	M:	My brother that’s next to me, his name is James. He’s an Executive Director of a free clinic down in North Port. My sister Darla, she’s an Insurance Adjuster in Tampa. My youngest sister works at Shands [Shands Hospital]. My youngest brother is a retired sergeant major from the Army. He’s working with a defense contractor; he’s living up in D.C.

	E:	I mean growing up. Did your mother stress that everyone really push towards education? Was it just you? Were you singled out?

	M:	Well my mom pushed everyone. She passed in [19]64. That was her emphasis, education was a big thing.

	E:	Did all of you do the Upward Bound Program or was it just you? M:	I think it was just me. Yeah, I think I was the only one.

	E:	About coming to UF. Was that common amongst you and your friends, or was that out of the ordinary?

	M:	Most of my closest friends their parents were also educators. Then I had other friends that their parents did farm work, it was like a dichotomy. I did farm work and all types of odd jobs. In fact working in the fields convinced me that was something I didn’t want to do. In the back of my mind I said I’m going to get an education. So that when it’s hot in the summer I’m in AC and when it’s cold in the winter I got some heat. That’s the way I looked at it.

	E:	You mentioned a scholarship. What was the scholarship for?



	M:	It was a scholarship to pay books & tuition at the school of my choice. E:	How did you receive those scholarships? Was it academic?

	M:	It was academic.





	E:	What other schools were you considering?



	M:	I had a chance to go to West Point, Harvard, University of Tampa, and University of Miami. There were a couple of others. It’s been a while. [Laughter]

	E:	That’s a pretty impressive list. How did you choose UF over those schools?



	M:	Like I said I had a conversation with my grandmother I said the next person or recruiter I talk to I’ll go there. It happened to be somebody from UF.

	E:	What had you heard about UF?



	M:	Not a whole lot. I knew it was thee school in Florida. I knew about the football team because when I was in school I played football, basketball, and ran track. I said hey it’s close to home so I’ll go.

	E:	Were you interested in doing any of those activities here at the University?



	M:	No, I didn’t have college-type talent. I weigh 140 lbs soaking wet. Over the years when I would talk to people and tell them I played high school football, they would look at me like you did what?

	E:	What years did you attend the University?



	M:	I came in the fall of [19]69 and graduated in the summer of [19]74.



	E:	What activities or organizations were you involved in here on campus?



	M:	When I came up in [19]69, needless to say race relations were not, let’s say, very inviting for Black students. I think that year, up until that point in time when I came, it was the largest class of Black students. Very quickly, we formed strong bonds. The Black Student Union was already in existence, but it was very low key. Me and several other people we got together and we redid the constitution of the BSU. We more or less modeled it after the Black Panthers. We had a





chairman, minister of defense, minister of information, that sort of thing. We became proactive. Roy Mitchell, who was the first Black Dean of Student Affairs, supported us. In fact, my first semester I went on a couple of recruiting trips down to Tampa, Miami, Orlando to try and persuade other Black students to come to the University. The only year that I lived on campus was first year. I was in South Hall. I had the biggest room on the yard down on the ground floor. They had one Black student per floor. Naturally I made friends with the janitorial staff. One incident that I’ll never forget: some guys over in North Hall decided to go in the bathroom and throw feces at each other. This one Black janitor that I made friends with, he was a pastor. He came and told me what happened. He said, “Well, they expect us to clean it up.” I said, “Rev, you’re not going to do that. I will take care of it.” I got on the phone and made a couple of phone calls. In about twenty minutes I had fifteen other guys in my room. I told them what had gone down. We went over to North Hall, checked out the bathrooms, and it was atrocious. That was the same year that Willie Jackson and Leonard George came in. They were the first two Black football players at UF. We put Jackson at the end of one hallway, and another guy named Earl Wilcox—Earl was also big— he was at the other end of the hall. We ran down, knocked on the doors, and told everybody to come out. We just gave them an ultimatum: “Y’all made this mess, you going clean it up.”

	E:	Were they Black students? M:	They were all White students.

	E:	Why do you think they did that?





	M:	I have no idea.



	E:	Were they reprimanded for doing that?



	M:	What happened is after we made the ultimatum, they called the area director, then UPD shows up. They asked me to come down and talk to them. I said, “Hey, you know, those guys had a shit fight, and they need to clean it up.” They looked at us like we were crazy. We told them, “We aren’t going anywhere until this gets cleaned up.” We had a standoff for several hours. The guys that had the fight eventually cleaned it up. After that, about eight of us would go around to the different dormitories on the weekend, and if the hallways, bathrooms were really messy? We would knock on doors and tell whoever was there, “Hey, y’all clean this up. If it’s not cleaned up when we come back in two hours, we going see why it won’t be cleaned up.” In fact, this is what led to my arrest. In January of [19]70 we did the same thing over in Tolbert Hall. Found a real messy room and me and two other guys were accused of making them do this at gunpoint. So even though it was eight or nine of us, they could only identify me and two other guys that lived in Tolbert Area. We get arrested for aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. Buddy Crevasse was sheriff at the time. The guys that lodged the complaint, when they went down to the sheriff’s office, the sheriff said, “Hey, we want you to ID”—and they used the n-word. Later on, members of the BSU, they went around and raised money for us to post bail. They dropped a whole bunch of cigarettes off to us at the jail. When we got ready to leave, I went back upstairs and gave them away to guys. In fact some of the guys I met in jail I’m still friends with now. We got out on bail, we met with the guys. The charges ended up being





dropped because the guys refused to cooperate with the police. They didn’t like the racist attitudes of the cops. In [19]71 we dropped out of school. We had a protest. We gave a set of demands to the administration. Then we had a sit-in in Stephen C. O’Connell’s office. I forget the exact number, but sixty or seventy of us got arrested. In the end, the administration met our demands. That’s how the Institute of Black Culture came into existence. In fact I was the first work study student with the IBC. I helped lay out the design of it. Me and the first director, we went to D.C. and New York to pick out the artwork that’s in there. Then in spring of [19]73 I was on the charter line of Omega Psi Phi fraternity. In the fall of [19]73 I went to Holland as an exchange student. I studied for a year in Holland at the University of Utrecht. I graduated when I was in Holland. I came back in August of [19]74 and got my degree.

	E:	You just gave me a mouthful. I want to get deeper into some of these things you mentioned. Let’s go back to the first arrest. Did that make the newspaper?

	M:	Hell I made JET Magazine. In fact, my dad was at his company’s annual meeting in Tampa and he opened JET magazine and saw my picture. He freaked out.

	E:	This is about the restroom right? When you were arrested for aggravated assault?

	M:	Well, it wasn’t about the restroom per se. It was that me and some of the other guys would go on weekend patrols to some of the dormitories and if they were extra messy we would make the students clean it up. We felt they weren’t paying the janitors and the maids enough money for them to do that extra work. After we started doing that I had several people come up to me saying, “I don’t know what





y’all doing, but we used to wouldn’t get through until three or four o’clock. Now we get through at about eleven or twelve.” The Black people that worked on campus were really glad to see us there. I had this one lady that was a cashier in the cafeteria. I had a meal card, and so I would pick out this and that. The lady said, “You know, bro, you don’t have to do that. Just get whatever you want.” So I would load up my tray, and whatever I got, it always came out to ninety-nine cent. So that was their way of protesting. [Laughter] I’ll never forget when I was moving in. My late grandfather grew up in Alachua. He really didn’t want me to come because of the racism he experienced. There used to be a sign at the Depot in Gainesville that said, “Nigger, if you can read run, if you can’t read run anyway.” Alachua County was really racist. When I was moving in, I had my roommate come in. Being the friendly guy I am, I turned around and, “Hi, my name is Joe.” I held out my hand to shake his hand. He looked at me, turned around, and I never saw the guy again.

	E:	And your roommate was what color? M:	White.

	E:	So they already had mixed dorm rooms by the time you came?



M:  Well, that I can’t really say. I lived in South Hall. There were four Blacks in South Hall, one per floor. At that time there were maybe 120 Black students total. Then I had another White guy move in, he lasted about three weeks. After that I had a double room all to myself. That’s where everyone partied.

E:  Let’s go back to the storming of the president’s office. How did that idea come about? What caused that?





	M:	The BSU we got together and had meetings over a period of time. We came up with a set of demands. One for the University to recruit more Black students, to open the Institute of Black Culture, to recruit more Black faculty and there were maybe four or five other demands that we had. Several times we tried to present it to the administration, then we decided to just go ahead and have a sit-in.

	E:	Tell me a little about the sit-in. Were you a part of the sit-in? What was going through your mind at that time?

	M:	I wanted the Administration to meet our demands. The day before the sit-in BSU met. We organized who was going to actually be in the President’s office. I wasn’t in the office because at that time I was the Minister of Defense. I was more or less a Marshall on the outside to make sure that everybody was where they were supposed to be. Then when UPD came nobody resisted or anything. They brought a bus to take us down to the jail. In fact, there was one guy that was clueless. He was coming in from class. His name was Demps. Demps saw everybody getting on the bus, so he got on the bus. He was looking around and said, “Hey, where we going?” Everybody hollered, “To jail!” He hollered, “Let me out!” [Laughter] We just cracked up. When they booked us some people gave their real names. We had several Eurina Shitzins, some Aretha Franklins, James Browns. In the end they ended up dropping the charges. They put us on academic probation for a quarter, this was before the semester system. One condition was that we couldn’t play inter-collegiate athletics, but we didn’t have any athletes. It was a sign of the times.

	E:	How did the White students respond to that?





	M:	We had some White students that were supportive. We had others that didn’t care. Others that thought we had loss our minds.

	E:	What did your parents think about that? How did they feel when they found out that their son, who they had sent off to college was getting arrested? Your grandmother. How did she feel?

	M:	My grandmother, once I talked to her about it and explained what was going on she was supportive.

	E:	You mentioned being on the chartering line of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity. What other fraternities were on campus at that time?

	M:	The first Greek organization didn’t get established on campus until 1972 and that was Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity. Then in the spring of [19]73 the Omegas, the Sigmas, the AKAs, and the Deltas. I think the Deltas got established in [19]74.

	E:	How did the administration receive it? Did you all have a hard time? Was it just turning in paperwork?

	M:	It was just turning in the paperwork.



	E:	Once you brought the fraternity to campus, how was it received by the rest of the campus?

	M:	I really can’t answer that because after I pledged in the spring of [19]73, I was in school here the summer of [19]73 and then I left. When I came back in [19]74 I had graduated and moved back down to my hometown. By that time because of the number of Black students on campus, I don’t think there was any friction.





	E:	How were Greek relations between the different councils? How did the White fraternities receive the Black fraternities, in general? Even if you can’t speak about Omega, how were the Kappas received when they came on the yard?

	M:	That I really didn’t pay attention to. All the guys that pledged Kappa I knew. At that time all the Black students more or less hung together. That was one of the neat things during that time. Even though someone would join a fraternity different from mine, or sorority, we didn’t let that interfere with our friendship.

When I moved back to Gainesville in the [19]80s, there were incidents where one fraternity was wrecking another fraternity just because they were in different fraternities. To me that made no sense. I remember when all the Greek organizations started out. It didn’t matter what Greek letters you had on your shirt, it was the friendship you had with the person. The Greek organization didn’t define the person. It just so happened my buddy happened to be a Kappa, happens to be an Alpha, and I happen to be an Omega.

	E:	Why Omega and not Kappa?



	M:	I guess it was because of Omegas I knew from different walks of life from my hometown, the community stuff they did. I felt like that was the organization for me?

	E:	I know you said you didn’t really pay much attention to the Kappas. But what types of activities were they doing on campus? Speak a little bit about that. Were they a big deal amongst the Black students? Or was it, if you weren’t interested then you weren’t interested?

	M:	It wasn’t a big deal at all. I don’t remember them doing anything that stood out.





	E:	Were they having parties, community service events?



	M:	They would throw parties. They would have fundraisers. That’s about all I remember from them about that time. Then again because I lived off-campus I really did all my socializing in the city. After I moved into my room, maybe two hours later I went straight to Fifth Avenue and met a lot of people from Gainesville. In fact, a lot of those folks I’m still friends with to this day. I did the majority of my socializing off-campus as opposed to being on campus.

	E:	We’ll come back to Fifth Avenue. What was a typical Friday night like for you?



	M:	A typical Friday night I would hit Fifth Avenue. At that time Fifth Avenue was totally different than what it is now. They had several clubs and pool halls. I would party on fifth avenue and when that shut down about one thirty, two o’clock. Everybody would go to Porters Quarters, that’s where all the after hour joints were. Party to Porters until about three, four o’clock in the morning and then I’d go back to campus. They had another club out in the boonies called the Village Gate. It was way back in the woods. Sometimes I would go out there and always get a ride back to campus. It was really kind of weird. Even though I didn’t have a car, I got around pretty good.

	E:	You sound like you had a pretty good relationship with the local people of Gainesville. Was that pretty common amongst Black students?

	M:	No, not really. Some Black students never left campus. They never set foot in town, they stayed on campus. I made friends with a lot of people in town. When they found out I was a student, they were glad I was a student. A lot of people told me, “Hey, you aren’t like a lot of other people that go to the UF. You not





stuck-up.” I consider myself everyday people. I had this one family that sort of adopted me and my roommate. We could always go by there when we needed a meal. We would go to church with them. When I was living in Lincoln Estates, the house where I lived, right behind it was the Southeast Boys & Girls Club. At that time it was shut down. Me and my two roommates, Horace Moore, he’s an attorney in town now. We got together and decided to see about getting the Boys & Girls Club re-opened. We hit some businesses, some people, raised some funds and got the club re-opened. We had a couple of marches and some other stuff but the club was re-opened.

	E:	You mentioned a church. What church did you attend here in Gainesville? M:	Mt. Carmel, Mt. Moriah. Bartley Temple. Springhill.

	E:	Was there any one church that a lot of the Black students went to?



	M:	Because you had students that were Baptists, Methodists, Church of God In Faith they found their own church homes.

	E:	Let’s talk a bit more about campus. Were there any places that you just couldn’t go? You knew not to go there.

	M:	Not really. I went anywhere I wanted to on campus. We used to hang out at the [inaudible]. Minnie Riperton played at the [inaudible] twice, prior to her releasing her first hit single. I had a chance to meet her. They had a rock festival and I had a back stage pass. I had a chance to meet Bobby Butterfields, Sly & the Family Stone, Creedence Clearwater. It was nice.

	E:	Tell me about a tradition you remember, something here at the University of Florida that you and your friends did, maybe fraternity brothers.





	M:	A tradition. I can’t think of anything right off hand.



	E:	Anything. Maybe something you did every week. Something you did before game. During certain time periods, just something you remember.

	M:	I can’t remember anything.



	E:	We’ll come back to that one. Did the school rally around the sports team at that time? You see how it is now. Everyone loves the football team. Was there a sport back then that everyone was passionate about?

	M:	Football.



	E:	Did you follow the football team also?



	M:	Actually at that time I made money betting against the Gators. It was easy to get a bet. Like I said I hung with everybody in town and they were Gator fanatics. I figured out from following them that during that time the games they were supposed to win they would end up losing. The games they were supposed to lose, some kind of way they would pull an upset. I loss some money, but I won more than I loss.

	E:	When did you first realize you were a gator? When did you first say I am a gator? M:	2005.

	E:	2005. You graduated which year? M:	[19]74.

	E:	[19]74. What changed in 2005 for you? M:	I don’t know.

	E:	So what was the moment that changed? You said in 2005, what was going on then that you became a Gator?





	M:	Like I said when I first came up here it wasn’t the most welcoming place for Black students. Even though I was a graduate I really didn’t feel a part of the school because of some things that happened. I just said yeah I went to the University of Florida and that was it.

	E:	What advice would you give to current students? What would you tell me?



	M:	I would tell you to set your goals, achieve your goals, study hard, and give back to the community. Encourage other people, especially other Black males that education is the key to your future.

	E:	Are there any other thoughts you would like to share?



	M:	Just that I had some good times here. I had some bad times here. I made some friendships that are still going on. When I think about it can’t believe it’s been almost forty years. That’s kind of dating myself. I’m glad I’m here; the alternative is a whole lot worst. I’ve met a wide variety of people over the years. I still live in Gainesville. I’m still an active participant with the undergraduate chapter here and I’m also active the graduate chapter. The graduate chapter Beta Pi was the ones that pledged my line. I’m sort of like the bridge between the grad and the undergrad chapter.

	E:	Okay Joe, that about covers it. It was a pleasure speaking with you. I appreciate you take the time out to talk with me today.

	M:	Okay not a problem. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Andre Everette





	Audit-edited by:	Aliya Miranda, April 20, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 2019