AAHP 112; Wright; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 112 Walter Wright

African American History Project (AAHP) Interview conducted by Marna Weston on August 21, 2010

21 minutes | 12 pages



Abstract: Walter Wright was born and raised in Newton, Georgia, and was interviewed at the 2010 Jerkins High School Reunion in Perry, Florida, about his experiences on the Taylor County Leadership Council. He grew up on a farm with his grandparents, and describes the experience of living there. He also offers some reflections on current community dynamics and the younger generations, and shares some of his family history.





Keywords: [African American History; Taylor County, Florida; Baker County, Georgia]



Standards:





SS.912.A.1.7 Describe various socio-cultural aspects of American life including arts, artifacts, literature, education, and publications.





































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 112

Interviewee: Walter Wright Interviewer: Marna Weston Date: August 21, 2010



	MW:	I’ve now been introduced to Mr. Walter Wright. We spoke very briefly yesterday.



This is August 21st, 2010. Mr. Wright, thank you for taking a moment to speak with me.

WW: Mmmhm. Well, I’m a member of the Taylor County Council Leadership. I’ve been in it from since… a length of time. We are an organization that try to help the community. The least of everything we can do to make the community—try to keep Jerkins schools out here [a] good place for people to come and have pledges and stuff like that. That’s about all I could say about this. This is a nice place to come to.

	MW:	When and where were you born Mr. Wright? WW: I was born and raised in Georgia.

	MW:	What place?



WW:  In Newton, Georgia.



	MW:	And, when were you born? WW: I was born October 21st, 1950.

	MW:	What brought you from Georgia to Perry, FL?



WW: Well, I just was travelling one day and got in my car, and my car broke down in Perry and I just stayed here.

	MW:	So you’d call yourself a travelling man? WW: I am. [Laughter] I’m a travelling man.

	MW:	Who are your mom and dad?



WW:  Charlie Reid Wright and Mary Willy Wright.





	MW:	Can you tell me when and where they were born? Or, their approximate dates of birth?

	WW: They were all born in Georgia too. And I don’t know the births of them. MW:	Do you have brothers and sisters?

	WW: Yes, I have brothers and sisters. They still in Georgia. MW:	What are their names please?

WW:  Charlie Wright, Johnny B. Wright, Robert Wright, and my sister is Deloris Wright.



My baby sister, she was Minnie Lewis Wright but she passed.



	MW:	I’m very sorry to hear that. I’m going walk over here where you are pass the fryers. I’ll be over there in a second. As I walk pass this good smelling fried chicken again. Alright, back with Mr. Wright. Mr. Wright you are not from this area, but you have your own history, so I’d like to ask you a few questions about that and where you’re from. Could you tell me about your earliest memories and childhood. Did you have chores? Did you live in the city? Did you live on a farm?

WW: Oh, I lived on a farm. I lived on a farm and it was nice. We raised have our own chicken, hogs, goats. It was just a nice time. We was children running out there in the field, plowed ground out there behind the mule where my granddaddy was plowing, playing in the dirt.

	MW:	[Laughter] So you didn’t have a tractor, you had the mules? WW: We had the mules. Yeah.

	MW:	Now what was a mule like?



WW:  A mule was an animal that pulls a plow.



	MW:	What was their disposition? I hear mules are stubborn.





WW:  Well, I don’t know because my granddaddy always put the plow line on him….



We had the mules, they mostly do what you tell them to do. A lot of people don’t know what “Gee” and “Haw” means. When you tell them to “Gee,” they’ll go one way, then tell them to “Haw” and they’ll straighten up and start going straight.

MW:  So he knew how to talk to them?



WW: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was just fun sitting out there watching them. When he plowing the peanuts and stuff, plowing the peanuts; when he get the peanuts on there we be sitting out there in the peanuts field pulling the peanuts, eating the peanuts up off the bushes. [Laughter]. We just had a nice time out there on the farm. We grew up our own vegetables, gardening, do stuff like that. Only thing that mama and them had to do was just sometimes they go to town and buy the flour and stuff but the mill—they had a mill out their called Cordorate Mill. We’ll trade yellow corn off for the white corn; and they’ll grind it and we have our mill. And we raised our own meat and stuff; so we never did have to go to town to buy nothing too much.

	MW:	It sounds like you really miss the farm, do you still farm? Or, do you wish you could back to the farm.

WW: Well, actually when I do go back home and stuff, I ride through there and look at the farms. See how the peoples [inaudible 4:52] and they cotton, corns, and peanuts and how it be looking; it be looking good, you know. But going back to it, now don’t think I would want to go back to it unless I just have to go back. If I have to go back, then I’ll go back for I already know what to do.

	MW:	So you got citified? [Laughter]





WW: Well, yes, well, I know what to do in the city too. [Laughter]. So I’m just all around. I can go back to the farm and farm. I come to the city, I know how to do jobs in the city.

	MW:	What county in Georgia was this farm in? WW: In Baker County.

	MW:	Okay, and part of the state is Baker County, how far is that away from here? WW: It’s about—I’ll say a little over a hundred and seven miles.

	MW:	Now, you mentioned your grand father. Is that your grandfather on your mother’s side? Or your daddy’s daddy?

	WW: On my daddy’s side. MW:	What was his name?

WW: Charlie Reid, and his wife, your grandmother? WW: Essie Reid.

	MW:	They had been farmers the whole time? That’s what they did, they worked the land?

WW:  Yeah. Hmmhm.



	MW:	Did they ever tell you any stories when you were growing up about how times were?

WW: Yeah, but I done forgot all of that now, I done forgot stuff like that. I never did want to put it in my mind cause see I was born since freedom, see. Back then when were doing, you know, when White peoples had them, they had to do stuff—they was made to do stuff, see, I think after I was grown up and born since freedom, they not gonna make me do something that I don’t want to do.





MW:  Mmhm. But your grandparents, they had those memories.



WW: Yeah, they do stuff that they didn’t wanna do, and they was made to do stuff like that. But me, if I want to do stuff I’d do it, and if I don’t , You ain’t gonna put your hands on me and make me do it.

MW:  Did you have chores when you were growing up?



WW: Yeah, we had to go to church and go to school. Then we get out of school then we have to get out there and work and little bit in the peanut field; hold peanuts and stuff like that. Chop cotton, pick cotton. But you see back then, stuff was real cheap. You could take a dollar and a half and get a slab a bacon about that long.

	MW:	Okay, and that’s the arm’s length of a man holding his hands a part.



WW: Yeah, but see back then, my daddy working on a farm, he was making $15 a week. And, work half a day on Saturday and make $16. But you could take that

$15/$16 dollars and go to the grocery store and come back with 2 5 pound bags of grocery and still have change to spend on Sunday with.

	MW:	[Laughter]. I’ve already spent $15 this morning.



WW:  And what you spent $15 on, you could hold in in your hand.



MW: I’m wearing two t-shirts, that’s what I had to buy. $9.95 and a candy bar and a soda. Fifteen dollars. [Laughter]

WW: Yeah, but it was great back then. Sometimes, the way things going on back there now, I think if things were like it was back then, the world would be better off than it is today.

MW:  How do mean sir?





WW: I mean, we wasn’t worried bout this drugs and stuff. You know, how the drugs and stuff done took over. It’s just messing up people’s kids and stuff. Peoples getting killed behind drugs and stuff. It just got them addicted. Back then, when I was coming up, drugs wasn’t bout that. Cause children didn’t know nothing about that and it was better kids back [inaudible 8:55]. You didn’t have to worry bout kids going to jail and nothing like that. I’m 59 years old and I’ve never been in trouble in my life, til I got down here in Florida and I’ve seen so much happening and going on, fast life, like that. You see, me, I like hanging by myself, not in a big crowd cause I always think what my grandma told me. If you hang in a big crowd and some body in there done something, you gone always be accused of it too. I don’t like to be with a big crowd or nothing like that because [inaudible 9:35] be myself no more. That’s about it.

	MW:	When you were growing up and going to school, what is your earliest memory of school?

WW: I called it [inaudible 9:51] because I was bad in school. I was real bad, I mostly got a whoopin’ everyday in school. But, I think it did me some good, you know, as I was coming up because the whoopin’ that we get in school, the teacher would bring us home and us parents about it and then we got another whoopin’. And out of the whoopin’ at school and the whoppin’ we got home, I think it made a better man out of me. Honest man cause, just like I said never been in trouble and nothing like that. I don’t hang around any and everybody. I mostly can tell the trouble makers and the ones that not doing anything or doing illegal stuff, I don’t





wanna be around. It’s like that cause so far I’ve never in trouble so I’m going— last few days I got here, I’m going try to keep it the same. Stay out of trouble.

	MW:	Did you have a particular teacher anywhere in school that left a lasting impact on you and you kind of remember things that they told you in school today?

WW: Well, not really. Not really cause we had so many. I know we had one teacher there, she was a mean one. She just grab us by the ear and just wring them and pinch them and stuff like that. And I didn’t like her too hot. [Laughter] So I don’t have too much about the teachers, but there were some nice teachers and I think that they were just doing their job. Give you your schooling.

	MW:	A lot of people that I’ve spoken to—not everybody but several people I’ve talked to here and at other reunions or Black high schools talk about that when the schools were integrated something was lost. Something in the sense of community and seeming that the teachers cared more about the kids and like you said that they didn’t get in trouble as much. Do you see the same thing? That there was a difference after the schools became integrated?

WW: Well, nah. I mean, it might be, but I can’t see it because now these days now the children they doing most of the things that they want, they not paying attention to the teachers like they should. I think they just going to school to say they going to school. The way they wearing their clothes now is like—back then, you wear your pants below your behind like that or you either wake up and you got blisters big as I is on you. I think some of the schools is different from the schools back then when I was growing up. Just a little bit different, but at the moment I can’t pin point and say what it is. But I know there’s a lot of different in it.





	MW:	Where’d you go to high school sir? WW: Baker County, East Baker High.

	MW:	What year did you graduate? WW: I didn’t graduate.

	MW:	When you left school, did you take on a trade? Did you go into the service?



What—



	WW: No, I just got a job on the farm, working on the farm and that was bout it. MW:	How long did you farm?

WW: … I farmed about five or six years. Then I left there and went up in Albany, Georgia.

	MW:	Okay, Randolph County?



WW: Yeah, and I got a job there with construction. I’ll never forget, Sanford Richmond Construction, job there. We was digging foundation for holes, building buildings and stuff, and digging foundations and stuff. Plus, I was making more money there, you know, and I liked it. So, when I left there, then I got a job with a plumber doing plumbing work. So then I did plumbing bout five or six years. After that, then us got a job with an electrician, doing electricianing, I did off and on.

Then I got a job with the rent man, repairing houses.



	MW:	Are you married sir? WW: No, no

	MW:	Children?



	WW: Yeah, I have one daughter and three grands. MW:	What are their names?





WW: Almatasha, Natasha Bridges, and… my grandchild… they got them funny names. I cant—[Laughter]

	MW:	I got a nephew, all I know is P. I can’t even remember, he’s not even my nephew, he’s a cousin but they just call him P. I always try to recall what his real name is. We use nicknames, don’t we?

WW: [Laughter] Yeah, yeah. Her nickname is—one of them is a girl, her name is Jennica, and the oldest girl name Pooh, and the grandboy, we call him James. But, they got them funny names that I can’t pronounce. [Laughter] Them funny names, you know.

	MW:	I have a cousin name Antonella Anjenica Walker. That’s a mouthful aint it? WW: Yeah it is. Yeah it is.

	MW:	I had to put something extra in her card when she was born, because the name [Laughter].

WW: Well, last week my oldest granddaughter, she flew to Maryland; Baltimore, Maryland. I was going to church and she tried to call me to let me know that she fixin to fly to Baltimore, Maryland where her daddy at. But, I wasn’t home, but that night my daughter called me and told me and said, “Pooh tried to call you and tell you bye, she was fixin fly home to her daddy”. And said the first time ever been on a plane that pilot gave her a little sense of wings. So, when she got back that next Sunday, I called her and said, “Pooh how did you [inaudible 15:49]” “Well granddaddy, I enjoyed my flight. That man gave me some wings and I got them on now”. [Laughter] “You enjoyed yourself?” “Oh yeah, I did” “Well that’s good then”.





	MW:	Working with the Taylor County Leadership Association, you have to have come in contact with a good many leaders, and, certainly the people to help put this on today. Many of them are leaders. What are the qualities that make a person a leader.

WW: I think the knowing how to talk to peoples, and a way they carry themselves, and get the peoples to follow him. And I think that what makes a good leader. So what is your personal definition of leadership?

	MW:	I’m just here. I’m just here with them. Whatever decision they want to make if it sound good with me, I go along with them. I don’t try to make no decisions about nothing, but I just go along with them. Whatever need to be did around here as volunteers and stuff, I try to help them the best I can. But, right now my health is bad and ain’t too much I can do.

WW: You talked to me about being burned and you described some of your wounds, and I can see from your hands. Could you describe what happened with the incident where you were burned?

WW: Yeah, I was at my house there and I was gonna cook me some bread. When I turned the stove on, [the] thing just blew up, blew; and the way it blew, I shouldn’t have been in the world today. But see, God being a good God, he was there for me. He was there for me. Cause, I was standing just about from here to the back of you right there—

	MW:	So about three feet?





WW:  Yeah, and the stove when it blew, it blew my hand off; blew the whole window out and I was standing there looking at it. That’s why I said God has been a good God. That’s why I wanna try to serve him til I die.

	MW:	I guess you were probably knocked unconscious, did you wake up in the ambulance or the hospital?

WW: I wasn’t unconscious. That’s one thing about it. I wasn’t unconscious, I was standing there looking at the fire go up the wall. And when I looked down I had on an old polyester shirt like this right here, and I looked down and said, “Lord, I’m on fire”. And my neighbor, he was down the street bout two, three houses down from me. He came in there and said, “What, what happened?” and he’s running, instead of coming in the house and getting my telephone he went way back home and got his phone and called the ambulance. So when the ambulance got there, they put me in the ambulance and they was hooking me up and stuff like that. I talked them from there to the hospital out there and when they put me on the helicopter going to Gainesville, I talked all the way to Gainesville. When I into the hospital there, they was asking me questions. I told them everything they wanted to know and then they start hooking that IV and stuff up to me, that’s when I went out.

	MW:	So you weren’t in any pain? WW: Huh?

	MW:	You weren’t in a lot of pain, you were able to talk to people?



WW: Yeah, yeah. Until they start hooking up that—whatever they was hooking up to me. That’s when I start going out; after that then I didn’t know nobody else then.





	MW:	So you were at the burn unit at Shands. So I guess they did a good job for you?



WW: Oh they did a wonderful job. They got some wonderful peoples there, nice people too. Doctors and stuff, I can’t take nothing away from them.

	MW:	How long were you there?



	WW: Well I went in there on the sixth, and I was out of there—I was out for Christmas. MW:	Do you recall your doctor’s name? Like the doctor in charge.

WW:  I done forgot her name.



	MW:	I’m sure you had a lot of doctors.



WW: Yeah, it was a lot of them there and a lot of nice peoples there working with me too. Well that’s about it. That’s all the thing I know now.

	MW:	Well I appreciate talking with you, Mr. Wright. On behalf of the Sam Proctor Oral History Program, we’d like to thank you for taking the time to discuss you being here at the Jerkins Reunion, and I’d just like to close by offering you the chance to have any closing comments. It could be about the celebration, about the interview, could be anything you want and when you finish what you said, that’ll be the end of the interview.

WW: Well, I think we having a nice time out here in Jerkins; and cooks and the barbeques going on, and on in the inside, singing and going on. I think everything is just nice out there until they unveil the history. Everything going on good.

[End of Recording]





	Transcribed by:	Krystal Dixon, February 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 18, 2019