AAHP 646; Whittle; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 646 Kiora Whittle 4-18-2019 Interviewed by Christine Berry on April 18, 2019

30 Pages



Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida]



AAHP 646

Interviewee: Kiora Whittle Interviewer: Christine Berry Date: April 18, 2019







B:  Hi, my name is Christine Berry and I am from the Samuel Oral History Program and today I will be interviewing Kiora Whittle. Kiora, do you mind if you spell out your name, please?

	W:	Yeah, absolutely. K-I-O-R-A, W-H-I-T-T-L-E.



	B:		Thank you. Today is April 18th, 2019. Kiora, can you tell me a little bit about yourself, like your age, your birth place, your major?

	W:	Yeah. I’m eighteen, I’m a freshman. I just got here. I am from North Carolina. I was born there, but grew up mostly in Ohio and then moved back for the last years of high school just because I really wanted to do it North Carolina [inaudible 49:15] to UF. So luckily I would be able to get in state, I was like “Alright, I know UNC and Chapel Hill are good schools, but I’m going to come here instead.” I do not like the cold at all, so here I am nice and warm. I started as a zoology major because I was interested in vet school which is another reason I really wanted to go to NC State. As I got older though, I kinda was leaning more towards like aquatic or exotic animals and UF has a really good program with like aquatic animals. They have a lot of extra classes that you can take on it. I was always going to come here for grad school, I just didn’t [inaudible 48:36] necessarily for fun. Then, I changed from zoology, because I decided I didn’t wanna be a vet anymore, to marketing and now I am about to change to advertising. Accounting is really not my strong suit.







	B:	Well, that’s a huge jump from zoology to business almost, so what made you change? What made you decide not to be a vet?

	W:	So, I still definitely have a love for animals and I plan on kind of like using my advertising to partner with that now, like maybe just being more on the business aspect of zoo or aquarium. But, I shadowed a vet, is what happened.

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	It’s wasn’t that I didn’t like what they were doing. It just wasn’t really what I wanted to do. Then, I realized that what I really wanted to do was just be a zoologist. I didn’t even want the extra schooling, which is expensive and so time- consuming and super competitive and if I don’t get in, there is not really not a ton you can do with a zoology degree to make money. Money is everything, but I definitely do kinda want a beach house. So, I was like, “Alright. Lemme think of some other ways maybe combine those?” I just decided I didn’t wanna be the one to clean the inside of Koala’s pouches and stuff. I just wanna really love the koalas and make sure they are cared for and educate people on them and help with conservation. I didn’t want the level of that and I decided to kinda take a more marketing approach to it because that was always my plan B. I have a godmother who is in New York and is very high up in the fashion system. I always loved her life and I was like, “Okay, that would be a nice plan B”. It’s interesting. It’s always busy and upbeat. It’s never the same thing twice and I really liked that. Then, I recently just found out about advertising at UF because a lot of the marketing majors that I was in classes with were talking about how they either started off with advertising or were thinking of switching to it. I was like, “If I







had known about advertising, I would’ve just done that this whole time.” So, yeah, it’s okay [Laughter]. I have some extra perspectives now.

	B:	Yeah, it’s a good variety that you get to be a part of. W:	Yeah.

	B:	So can you tell me a little bit about your extracurriculars and what organizations you’re involved in on campus here.

	W:	Yeah. So, I am actually a preview staffer for this coming up year. That’s probably my biggest involvement, definitely because it’s time consuming. We actually have to take a whole class for it because it is very intensive. You have to know your academics. We’re like mini counselors basically. We really have to know it so were not misadvising students. That’s probably like my biggest organization that I really identify with. We also do a lot of events. We help out a lot with new family programs and with even their advertising as well as just helping spread the word and awareness and sharing posts and everything. Also, I’m in the Exotic Animals Club, which is kinda how I am fulfilling my love for animals at the moment. So, I go and volunteer at Carson Springs. I try to go once a week, just depending on my work schedule is really what varies in that. I recently started going to events hosted by ASSU, the Asian American Student Association. Wait, ASSA I believe is actually the acronym. We had a diversity project and I have always been very curious to kind of broaden my knowledge of other cultures. I went to their talent show and was just talking to a lot of their chairmen and stuff and the leaders of the organization. I just have been to a couple of their events. Unfortunately, I just







work so much it’s not like I can consistently go to every single meeting for clubs, which is kind of bad. It’s the same with the Black Student Union. I have a lot of friends that are in that club and so, I always try to go with them, but I am busy most of the time with homework or work or other club meetings or other obligations as well.

	B:	Wow. That’s still a lot though. W:	Yeah. [Laughter]

	B:	Talk about your work a little. What do you do?



	W:	I work at the Publix on Thirteenth [Street], super close to campus. I also work at the Starbucks so I am cross trained. I go back and forth between cashiering and baristing throughout the week, which is awesome. Although, I am definitely getting overscheduled and I really have a hard time saying no whenever people ask me if I should take a shift. If I don’t have a class, I mean technically I am available, but really this is like my study time.

	B:	Oh no.



	W:	Yeah, it’s okay though. Sleep’s overrated. It’s fine. There will be time for that later. [Laughter]

	B:	That’s so sad.[Laughter]



	W:	It’s okay. The good news is that at least I’m being paid for it and I am saving up for Australia, so like, you know, blessing in disguise.

	B:	Wow. Do you want to talk to me a little bit about Australia possibly?







	W:	Yeah. Absolutely. So, again, because of my hidden love for animals, I am planning on going to Australia after I graduate. It’s going to kinda be like a treat myself trip. It’s definitely my number one motivation with school at the moment. Anytime I get done with an assignment or quiz, I am like, “Okay, you can plan a part of your trip.” I am kind of just planning it in portions and prices and everything and like the hotels I am going to use, the airlines, like everything.

Also, might start being a trip planner on the side because I think I am doing pretty good so far. I am kind of going just to go really. I really always just wanted to go to the Australian zoo. They have a lot of animal encounters there, like you can walk with a tiger. Can’t do that in America [Laughter]. Why not? You can hold a Koala for like thirty-five dollars because our money is a little bit more than theirs. It’s going to be a good trip. I get to see the Great Barrier Reef, too. I am excited. Definitely gonna to be an expensive trip, but it’s gonna be great, really great.

	B:	That’s amazing. Are you going with family or friends?



	W:	Maybe. I am kind of just inviting everybody to it. I mean anyone who can go, come. It’s not going to be for a couple of more years, so like you have time to save. I think my mom is gonna go for sure. I told her about it. She’s kind of like my little traveling buddy. We went to the UK, actually, a few summers ago for about ten days and traveled all over there and that was really fun. We’re gonna to stop in Bali, actually, on our way back too, because flying from Brisbane to Bali is like flying from Orlando to Puerto Rico. Like that’s a two to three hundred dollar trip. That’s like where all the Australians go to vacation I guess. We’re just gonna hit up a couple of countries. Hop around.







	B:	Crazy.



	W:	Yup—



	B:	Well, speaking of mom. Can we talk a little bit about your childhood or your family?

	W:	Yeah. So my mom is African American, that’s her whole family line is that and my dad is Caucasian, he’s from Florida. All of her family is from Ohio, which is the majority of the reason why I grew up there whenever my parents got a divorce we moved up there to be by her family. Being biracial was very cool because I got to see aspects from both sides. My mom’s side we would have these huge family reunions every year and I mean like everybody would get together, even the cousins I kind of forgot that I had. I was like, “Oh yeah! How are you?” [Laughter] It was like really fun and they were always very family oriented. Even though they would argue sometimes and this and that, it was always like, “Hey, you’re family. I don’t like you right now, but I love you. Come stay with me. It’s not going to make you get a hotel, like come on.” They were always very opening; you know? They are also very opinionated. I think that was just kind of my whole family. Definitely, have just been very used to that and kind of tough criticism, at times, which is good though because that prepared me for a lot of college professors. Which is great because a lot of my friends are struggling with classes, “Like, I just can’t stand him. He did blah, blah, blah” and I am just like, “No, he was just very direct.”

	B:	[Laughter]







	W:	He’s not being mean. B:	Honest, honest.

	W:	[Laughter] His way of being direct. So, just having that background and being used to that, I think has helped me keep myself together a little bit more and not have a ton of breakdowns from class too, which is really good. So, yeah.

	B:	That’s awesome. So, that’s your mom’s side. Are you close with your dad’s side?



	W:	No, I am definitely closer to my mom’s side. My mom is kind of like my best friend, which I don’t know if that’s cool to say [Laughter].

	B:	Don’t worry. My mom is my best friend too, so [Laughter].



	W:	She’s just so great. I love her. Actually, driving to see her right now because she is coming in to town for Easter, which is awesome. We are going to hang out at Saint Augustine. I realized in about middle school, you know after that gross pre- teen part where you’re just mean all the time and you hate the world, and I was like, “Oh my God. My mom is great. I have been so mean to her.” Anyways, it was during that time—I mean we have always been close— but that was when I was like, “You’re my go to person for a lot of things. Not everything, but a lot of things.” We just talk all the time. She’s not dealing with me going to [the University of] Florida very well.

	B:	Aww.



	W:	She’s probably going to end up moving here with in the next couple years [Laughter]. If we’re being honest. Me and her have just always been very close.







Because she is so very family oriented on her side, I was always really close with my aunts too that were in the same part of Ohio as us. We actually lived with both of them at one point in time. It was always like, “Alright, be sure to call them randomly.” I would literally set alarms on my phone to call them because she’s like, “You can’t just call people whenever you need something. That’s so rude.” I mean she definitely has a point.

	B:	Oh, for sure—



	W:	But, also it was something that I would never even really think to do. They weren’t so much very big on like, “Hey, you’re family. You need to communicate. These are your people no matter what.” Whatever. My dad’s side is very much the opposite. I don’t know [Laughter]. It’s just very weird how big of a shift it is.

It’s very strange to see the two totally opposite ends of the spectrum. We’ve never had a family reunion on my dad’s side. The only family of his that I know are the family that lived in Ocala. Apparently, we have cousins that live in Hawaii. I wanna meet those ones

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	[Laughter]. I wanna meet those people— B:	Those are the cool ones—

	W:	Who are they? Exactly. We have some that live in different parts of Florida.



Yeah. His family is very small because it’s really just kind of his parents, and then his siblings, and then their kids and that’s it. The only time that even all of them







would really all get together would be for Christmas and Thanksgiving and stuff. And so it’s just very very weird to see how differently the viewed it, you know?

	B:	Yeah, I definitely get the whiplash. W:	Yeah.

	B:	My mom’s Hispanic and my dad is American White, so – W:	Okay.

	B:	I totally understand the fifty-fifty. Super close on one side— W:	Yes.

	B:	And very odd on the other [Laughter]. W:	Yes.

	B:	So, in that case, you mentioned that your mom is really close with her sisters. Is it just the three of them then in that case?

	W:	It’s actually her brothers. My mom has two brothers and my dad has two sisters.



It’s funny. They’re like [inaudible 14:46] but reversed. Yeah. So, one of her brother’s, my Uncle Bruce— I love him— he is the middle one and she’s the oldest. That one, I think, is my Grandma’s favorite. Like, we all have a hunch.

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	You’re not really sure, but we’re sure. Anyways, he’s just always been a very to himself person. They do talk, he’s not very extroverted. She’s a lot closer with her youngest brother, my Uncle Joey, who honestly is more like brother because he







is fifteen or sixteen years younger than her. So he was like twelvish or ten, twelve, somewhere in there whenever I was born. And my actual brother on my dad’s side is eight years older than me, so I kind of grew up with my brother and Joey being like the same age about. Me and my Uncle Joey are really close, so that’s more of a brotherly figure I would think. Anyways, yeah, it’s kind of funny. Me and mom just both share a brother too.

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	[Laughter]. She’s really close with her youngest brother and they talk a lot. He lives up in Wearton, West Virginia so super close to Pittsburgh. Right by Ohio where they born at. Actually, like [inaudible 16:14] Mount Pleasant area, which is very country. I didn’t know that Ohio really had a country, but it does [Laughter]. She’s really close with her siblings and then my dad was really close with his extroverted sister, my aunt Beck, who I love. She’s like the White version of my mom. I love her.

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	Then he has another sister, Cindy, who he’s not super close with because she’s also kind of introverted, so they both kind of have the one sibling that is kind of more so to themselves. I don’t know, recently him and like his sisters have not been talking. I don’t really know why. She doesn’t really know. It’s weird though because if my mom and her brother were ever fighting over anything, it would either go one of two ways. It would either be like World War III for as long as they could both tolerate it or it would be like instantly like, “Hey, I’m sorry. Just like get







over yourself.” And then that’s that and things are fine. So, it’s kind of weird that they’re pretending like nothing happened, but also like the other person doesn’t even exist. So, it’s really weird how they’re also handling conflicts a lot differently [Laughter] within their sibling-ship. I don’t know. It’s just strange.

	B:	It’s definitely a different dynamic then, for sure. W:	Yeah, yeah.

	B:	Awesome, so do you have any siblings? You mentioned a brother.



	W:	Yeah, yeah. I have a brother Patrick. He’s on my dad’s side. He’s about like eight years older than me. His mom lives in North Carolina, which is actually why my parents moved to North Carolina. My mom met my dad in Florida while she was on Spring Break and then is like, “Alright. I guess I’m like staying in Florida.” [Laughter] So she switched institutions and finished out her degree in Florida.

Then, they got married and everything. She was like,” Hey, you need to move up there ‘cause Patrick needs to be with his mom and stuff too and blah, blah, blah, blah.” So, then they moved up to North Carolina and then they had me and so that’s why I was born there. Yeah, my brother hated me whenever we were kids [Laughter], which I can’t blame him because, of course, usually the sibling hates the new baby because that takes away attention and everything. I don’t know. I think my dad treated us a lot differently, if that makes sense. I don’t know if it was just because I was a girl and he was a boy or if it was because he just hated Patrick’s mom so much and saw too much of her in him. I don’t know, but definitely I would be like, “Oh, can I have a popsicle for breakfast,” and he’d be







like, “Sure, peanut.” And then Patrick would ask the same thing and then he’d be like, “Are you kidding me?” [Laughter] So, it was just like he treated us like very differently and so I don’t blame him for being kind of resentful towards me. But we don’t talk that much. He lives in North Carolina now still. And I wanna say that I didn’t see him for about three of four years and then I saw him for like a week and we actually bonded a lot. And so that was really cool, and now we occasionally keep up. I don’t know maybe like six times a year we’ll have a phone call.

	B:	Aww.



	W:	And just kind of like stay in touch. He was able to come to my high school graduation and my graduation party and that was really cool. ‘Cause I hadn’t seen him in like another three years almost.

	B:	Wow.



	W:	So, yeah it was [inaudible 19:57] long periods of time without seeing each other, so…

	B:	Yeah, it probably doesn’t help that you guys live in different states too.



	W:	Yeah. I honestly was kind of raised more as an only child because my parents divorced when I was about four-ish [inaudible 20:12]. And so whenever they split up, I lived with my mom primarily and then I’d be at my dad’s house like every other weekend and like one day of the week. And then whenever I was like eight or nine, Patrick went to go live with his mom in North Carolina ‘cause we were all in Ohio. Then, after that, I never saw him until I was like fourteen.







	B:	[inaudible 20: 37].



	W:	And we all took up a trip to the mountains and stuff and went to go seem him. So, yeah it’s kind of like he just disappeared. Then I was at my mom’s because my dad moved back to Florida when I was about nine and then he moved to Canada for a minute and then he moved back to Florida [Laughter]. I was just kinda with my mom all the time.

	B:	Wow.



	W:	And she doesn’t have any other kids, so it was just me and her. B:	Aww—

	W:	Like, alright. So, yeah.



	B:	That’s probably why you guys are close too then?



	W:	Yeah, for sure. It definitely is. Like, of course I had been sleeping on my own for a while. Don’t get me wrong I had my own room and I wasn’t scared to sleep by myself, but , also because it was just us, we would lay down watching movies and just sleeping together all the time.

	B:	Aww.



	W:	‘Cause it was just us. And, yeah, little like second grade me was like, “Alright, yeah, I like snuggles. This is cool.” So, yeah.

	B:	That’s awesome. The next question I’m going to ask is more about yourself personally then—







	W:	Okay.



	B:	So what you identify yourself as in terms of race and ethnicity?



	W:	Well, I usually I say I’m multiracial. My parents personally identify with one race, technically multiracial. But, we know for sure that some people on my mom’s side— there’s a lot of ethnicities going on there. There’s some Indian—

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	Somewhere in there. There’s definitely Native American somewhere in there too, somewhere. There just like, “Yeah, we’re Black. We’re just going to keep it simple.” So multiracial, biracial. One or the other. I kind of identify more proudly definitely with my Black side just because a lot of people on my White family have been kind of been more so judgmental at times. Some of the way that they do things like celebrate things is just weird to me because I kind of grew up on my mom’s side. Even like how they do Thanksgiving is different. They cook a lot of like really weird, different things and I’m like, “No,” [Laughter]. “I don’t know who made this homemade mac and cheese, but no.” And, so I definitely kinda just identify like more so culturally embracing my African American side rather than my White side.

	B:	Okay.



	W:	Yeah, but like if it’s like a test for acne, I’ll put both [Laughter].



	B:	That, I definitely understand. Wanting to claim both sides at the same time. W:	Yeah.







	B:	Okay, so considering that, and you mentioned it a little bit talking about the judgmental portion, but have you ever faced any discrimination because of your multiracial or biracial identity or ethnicity? —

	W:	Yeah.



	B:	[inaudible 23: 57]



	W:	Yeah. Actually, I haven’t really had any in a while. So, we were just talking about this in our Preview class a couple weeks ago. We had some people coming in from different departments who were just like sharing stories about diversity and stuff. And, I remember I was in like third grade, so I was like nine, right? And, I don’t know why I remember this so vividly, but I was going to lunch and sitting down with my friends and stuff or whatever. And this guy was like sitting with his friend at like another one. And this girl just looks over at me and she’s looking at me really weird, and I’m like, “What is up? Like can I help you? What is wrong?” And so anyway she’s like, “You cannot sit at this table,” and I’m looking at her like, “What?” I went to a predominantly Black school in Ohio. Like my school was predominantly Black and, whenever I went back to North Carolina, I went to a predominantly White school. Which is also really weird seeing the different aspects of just like the atmosphere in general, you know?

	B:	Mmhm.



	W:	‘Cause there really was such little diversity at my school in Ohio. I wanna say there was like definitely less than fifteen White kids in the entire high school, whenever I went to high school there my freshman year. And there was probably







like less than ten Hispanics and that was it. We did not have any people from the Asian descent like nothing. It was just very not diverse. Anyways though, back to Thursday. So, I was at the table, and so she’s like “You can’t sit here,” and I was very confused because even nine-year-old me was very much so a witty little smart ass. And I’m like “There’s a chair. I know I sit. I’m pretty sure I can sit.” And she’s like, “No, you’re an abomination.” And I was like “What?” What kind of word is that? This is another nine year old calling me an abomination [Laughter]. She went on and on and on and she’s like, “Your parents just shouldn’t have gotten together. They shoulda got with somebody that was like them and blah blah blah.” And I’m like, “Okay. I need you to calm down. This is just too much hostility. I want to eat my apple sauce and my Jell-O.” But also I was very shook. Before “shook” was “shook,” I was shook [Laughter]. And so I remember going home that day. I was very upset by it, but I always tried to kinda like hide things in front of people. I remember going home though and I was really upset and I looked at my mom and was like, “You made me an abomination.” And she was like “What?” And I was like, “Yeah. Someone said I was abomination because you and dad just had to get together. Why couldn’t you like somebody that was Brown?” [Laughter]. And I was just going on and on and on because this kid made me really feel like something was bad about it. Anyways, then my mom, ‘cause she’s also emotional and I’m emotional, then we like started crying and had a big talk about it and everything. I always knew I was Black and White. I just didn’t really get what that meant, you know?

	B:	Yeah.







	W:	That was kinda like the first time we had that conversation. And it was like, “Okay. This is cool. That means I have two different cultures. I have different components to myself. That just makes me more diverse.” You know what I mean? And, so, yeah it’s really cool. Although, also a lot people think I am Hispanic.

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	And so I’ve gotten Hispanic discrimination because I’m kinda tan colored and I have curly brown hair and I just fit that description as well, I suppose [Laughter]. It’s kinda not really like me, but I definitely have heard some discrimination from that too. I was hanging out with some of my friends who are Hispanic and this is like [inaudible 28:11]. For one they weren’t even Mexican and somebody came up and was like, “Stupid beeners and blah, blah, blah,” and just going on and on and on and was like, “Your taking all of our jobs.” And I’m like “Alright. For one we are in the sixth grade. We cannot work.” [Laughter] And so I’m like, “What’s his backup?” But, anyways, so then my friends weren’t even offended because they’re like, “We’re Puerto Rican. We’re not even beeners, but still you’re just being rude.” Anyways, it’s just kinda weird to like hear how much power words can really have over certain people because, you know, the “n word” was always a very big thing. I went to a predominantly Black school and some of the handful White kids that were there, a couple of them became very resentful I could tell.

But that’s because, even in when I was younger younger like first grade maybe or something, the kids would call me White girl just because I was pale. I’m not really that pale, but I definitely paler, you know? It was like anybody who was not







a particular shade and above was White to them at that age and level. They definitely would kinda be like, “Oh yeah. The White girl like the White kid, the White boy. Blah, blah, blah.” And it was just very much like labels. And so I understand why a handful of them definitely got annoyed because it was almost as if they were looked down upon just for being White. Which is weird because typically White people are not a minority.

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	It was kinda strange being in that atmosphere at a predominantly Black school.



Seeing White people in a minority standpoint. And so it was very like strange because I always like “Alright, this is not like the movies. The White kids are not the bullies right now.” [Laughter] So, it was a weird take on it, but yeah.

	B:	Wow. That’s a lot [Laughter]. W:	Yeah.

	B:	So, you said that you mentioned that the first time you really talked about diversity or having different identities was with your mom—

	W:	Mmhm.



	B:	After that, did you start to notice it more or did you see it more in school or were you ever taught about in that sense or?

	W:	Within school like a little bit once I got a little bit order. Specifically, my Spanish class that I took eighth grade. The teacher there, Professor Gan. She loved me. She’s Puerto Rican and, of course, she thought I was and she would always talk







full Spanish to me. For the first three weeks I had to fully remind her, “No habla Español.” Like I don’t know [Laughter]. But, she would always really address and she liked to talk about, not only the different diversities of all the Spanish speaking countries but also everybody’s background, you know? That was kinda just really cool because like every week she would have a new one and she would do like a mini-debrief. And she’d be like, “Hey, if anybody want to sign up to do these, you can and I will give you extra credit, you know? If not, then I will just do them myself. But here’s what every week’s country is gonna be. Tell us a little bit about it, like maybe a special food dish.” It was just a cute little thing. It was the first five minutes of class, once a week. It was just a cute thing. And so I thought that was really cool how she kinda branched out in diversity, but then it was also really weird how some people were really receiving and hearing and some people weren’t, you know? Some people would be like, “Wow. Where [inaudible 32:10]” and everybody else is like, “Hmm, yeah, but they’re all the same. I’m just gonna fully only believe whatever I have. I’m not even gonna listen.” And so that was just annoying. Like, “Alright, look. Be appreciative. [Laughter]. She went through all this trouble to help educate you.” Goodness.

Also, I really like to travel so I like to be more culturally aware just because I actually do intend to use that knowledge at some point in time. So maybe I was just more interested than other people. I don’t know.

	B:	Yeah. Okay. So the next question I’m gonna ask is: You mentioned the “n-word” being used a lot in school, in Ohio you mentioned?

	W:	Yes.







	B:	So, how did that make you feel specifically or what were the responses from either the White students using it or –

	W:	Yeah. Well, it’s become more of a slang term now. Like with the “a” at the end, not the “er”. If anybody says the “er”, I mean a riot would break lose.

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	There actually were a couple of riots [Laughter]. Like, you know, subtle. I feel like I can say it now because it’s like whatever because we’re not being offensive about it, blah, blah, blah, blah. But that was an oppressive term and so I still don’t really understand how it ever became a slang term. I just don’t completely understand how it even got to where it is today and so I just don’t really like it in general. That’s a derogatory term. That is what that word was created to be and saying that certain people can’t say a word is just you proving that it is a derogatory term, if somebody of a different race uses it. But why is that, why is it not if you use it, you know? I don’t know. It’s been a hard thing for me to understand the real concept of it. But I remember this one friend. This is somewhere in middle school like in the eighth grade. And people were picking on him. He was kinda what most would consider quote unquote “odd.” He was very to himself, but he really didn’t do anything. He would always be chilling, but they would pick on him ‘cause they’re like, “Oh my God. You’re so weird. You like anime and you like to draw weird things. You’re emo.” And then we’re like, “Dude he’s just minding his business like calm down.” [Laughter]. Anyways, I remember one day he said the “n-word” with the hard “r” and I really saw his life flashed before his eyes. I was terrified for him. It was just because it was inside a public







place, I was like, “Alright, things are safe. There’s teachers, it’s okay.” But it was definitely very concerning, you know?

	B:	Yeah. It does affect a lot of people—



	W:	Yeah. Of course they were instantly very offended about it like the other people that were around, and I understand why. I just don’t think anybody should’ve been allowed to say the word at school. Teachers were like, “Yeah, that’s a cuss word. You can’t cuss.” But also they didn’t really do anything about it like that. So it wasn’t really heavily enforced not to say that word, so I don’t know.

	B:	Yeah. Okay so— W:	It’s just weird.

	B:	[Laughter]. It is. It’s an odd topic to talk about— W:	Yeah. Mmhm.

	B:	We’ve been talking about your childhood and about growing up in this kind of environment, but now that you’re here at college—this is your first year, you mentioned. How do you feel about being here at UF in the same term discussing discrimination based off if you have faced any discrimination here?

	W:	Yeah, I haven’t faced any here. I think that’s just because [inaudible 36:26]. UF is known as a diverse school. They’re kind of known for being a ginormous university. Not everybody here is going to be of one cultural background, you know? I feel it’s also because are like, “Hey, I want to go to UF,” kinda know what they’re signing up for. So maybe that’s why or they’re older and much more







accepting and they’re like, “Oh, yeah. That’s fine. We’re all people. That’s great.” But, I haven’t faced any personally here at UF and I actually love how culturally diverse it is. I love how you can just walk around anywhere and you will see some club or some cultural background tabling somewhere. Unless it was pouring rain. Nobody is really tryna table in the rain. But, unless it’s raining, I don’t think I’ve seen an organization not be somewhere, whether that’s Turlington or Plaza or even just outside a building. Sometimes people will be randomly passing out flyers outside of the Chem building or something. So, yeah. I love to see how different it is, you know? I love how they host a lot of different events.

There is just one day I was walking by and there was a Salsa party going on in Plaza. I was like , “Wow!” I was like, “Yeah, I wanna learn how to properly Salsa.” ‘Cause I felt like I could, but I really didn’t know. I just watched a lot of movies [Laughter] So, I stopped for a minute and was like, “Alright. I have twenty minutes. Teach me.” And they’re like, “Okay.” And so, I got to learn how to Salsa, which was awesome. Then, they do a lot of things even Krishna. I know, technically, Krishna is not a culture. I don’t really know what Krishna is but it’s really cool—

	B:	I think it’s a religion—



	W:	Okay. Okay. Well, then yeah, a religion. There’s a lot of people that come together during Krishna because big plate of food for five dollars and were broke in college, which is great that they have that for us. Anyways, yeah. It was very cool to see that. Just like how many people really come together for big events. Even when I attended Asian American Student Association like they’re events







and stuff, yes, the majority of them are from Asian descent, but also there’s a lot of people that aren’t. And it’s really just because we just want to know more about the culture and [39:04]. We just love broadening our horizon, you know?

	B:	Yeah. I’ve always noticed that too. There’s different kids always at different organizations –

	W:	Mmhm.



	B:	That are not always from the set perspective that you would think they would be from.

	W:	Yeah.



	B:	So, kind of considering that you haven’t really notice that much discrimination on campus, which is great.

	W:	Mmhm.



	B:	Do you think in what ways has your experience impacted, based on how you identify yourself as or how others identify you as?

	W:	It’s definitely made me a lot more accepting of myself, if that makes sense.



Because whenever I was first learning about diversity when me and my mom had that conversation it was like, “Alright. Here’s what I am.” And I was always be offended when people would assume I was something else, you know? See, the thing is you can never really judge anybody by their likes. You can look like so many different backgrounds and nobody’s really gonna know, you know? I used to be like, “I’m Black and White and I’m proud.” And I would get secretly upset







whenever people would think I’m something else, but now I’m like, “Dude, no. That’s an awesome culture too.” I was like, “Really? You think I could be Cuban. Thanks.” I look Hawaiian. I kinda claim Hawaiian sometimes. That’s so cool—

	B:	[Laughter]. [inaudible 40:25]



	W:	Yes, exactly. Exactly. So, I’m like, “Yay [inaudible 40:32].” Anyways, I would love to go to Hawaii because it’s as tropical as you can get in America. Yeah, kinda claim that one. So it’s definitely really helped me be more accepting of that instead of getting defensive about being seen for what I am actually am. It’s like, “ Wow, no. But it’s also cool that I can also resemble of that background,” you know?

	B:	Yeah.



	W:	And, so [inaudible 39:09]



	B:	Yeah. Based off what you said, it sound like a bit of a difference from where you before.

	W:	Yeah, definitely. [Laughter]. It definitely is.



	B:	So the second question I’m, going to have is: Do you feel that the student professor population reflects the students here on campus?

	W:	I would say for the most part, but not in classes that I’ve had, if anything. More so you if you include the TAs. Just because I’ve noticed a lot of my TAs have been of a not traditional American background, but the majority of my actual professors have been.







	B:	Okay.



	W:	The majority of my professors that I’ve had are White but that’s also probably just because of the classes I’ve taken and it just happen to be that way. Because I’ve also had a lot of my friends talk and classes that I haven’t taken yet, but they were critical tracking courses, and they were like, “ Yeah, just so you know, it’s little bit harder to understand this professor. So it’s good to kind of watch the lectures online rather than go to class ‘cause then you can pause it and go at your own speed because it’s kind of hard to tell what they’re saying sometimes.” And I was like “Okay.”

	B:	Yeah. So you mentioned the non-traditional TA that you have compared to like your professor—

	W:	Yeah



	B:	Can you clarify what you mean by that?



	W:	Yeah. So my actual professor is definitely just somebody that has grown up in Florida their whole life. They tell you they’re like, “South Florida really strong, but not quite that hot.” So that’s why they’re in Gainesville [Laughter]. But they’re like, “Also, would never give up being in Florida.” It’s the Sunshine state. Like everybody loves it. And so they were born and raised here. I noticed that as I went took my exam it wasn’t just my TA. English was not their first language at all. It’s kinda just cool to see the difference in the shift. Although. It’s just nice to see that it’s not just only White people that are teachers and are TAs and this and that. And so I don’t really think it’s just because they’re diverse that they’re







TAs because she’s really smart and I know that she knows the information. But sometimes we have to be like, “Alright, we’re going to give you minute. Think of what you’re exactly trying to tell us.” Because she gets like very energetic and then she’ll sit and ramble for a minute and then she’ll be like, “Wait, what was the question?” [Laughter]

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	‘Cause like she didn’t really answer it. And it’s just because she’s thinking of what she’s saying and how she’s saying as well as the information like all at once. Just really quick and she’s like very fast paced. And sometimes she’s like, “Alright, give me a minute.” And we’re like, “Alright. Okay.” [Laughter]

	B:	Aww.



	W:	And so yeah she’s super sweet. Love her.



	B:	Okay. That’s interesting though to think about that from.’Cause I know especially in the Business School there is kinda look, from what I’ve noticed, a set kind of TA—

	W:	Yeah. Yeah.



	B:	Or professor compared to like the Anthropology Department maybe or something.

	W:	Yeah. Yeah. For sure.







	B:	Okay. You were talking about Preview earlier and how they teach about diversity and how speakers come in. So you can talk about how diversity is taught at Preview.

	W:	Yeah, absolutely. So we actually have—Oh my goodness I can’t remember her name and she is so sweet and I feel so bad that I forget her name now. Oh goodness! Anyways, so she comes and talks to us but she’s from the Department of Diversity and Cultural Awareness. I really cannot even remember the name of the actual program, which is really bad because I should definitely know that by heart. But I know how to get to it and take somebody there.

Anyways, she comes and talks to us and shares a lot of things about [inaudible 45: 25] experiences and stuff. Some comments she’s had both positive and negative. The student kinda came up to you with this like how would that make you feel and how would you deal with that. Some of them really saddens me to hear that’s how some people felt at UF. Some of them were very negative like blatant discrimination. That is actually horrible. And some of them were very nice and positive and that was like lovely to see and here. Aside from the comments, they also do a lot of self- development throughout the Preview class. They kind of came around and gave us worksheets. And so it’s like, “Okay. What do you identify with as your nationality? What do you identify with as your ethnicity? Are you an able person? Do you have anything that kind of maybe affects you and constricts you from doing certain things?” So it’s really addressing all the different components that make up an individual and seeing how diverse even just the Preview staffers even are. And it’s like, “Okay. So there’s about forty-three of you







in here and there’s fifty-thousand kids that go to this school.” And they’re like, “So take that and times it by like a million,”

	B:	[Laughter]



	W:	Because that’s the scale that we’re going up at apparently. And so like it’s like very cool to see all the actual aspects that kind of go in diversifying people at UF.

	B:	Yeah. It’s a lot and I know UF is definitely working on trying to broaden that, I think. The [inaudible 47:00] that we do have here

	W:	For sure. Did that answer your question? B:	Yes, yes.

	W:	Okay. Okay. Good [Laughter]. I was doing an activity.



	B:	I was wondering, was it the MCDA [Multicultural Diversity and Affairs] that you were referring to?

	W:	Yes.



	B:	Okay.



	W:	Yes.



	B:	So, is it Diana? I think her name is. W:	Yes, yes. That is her [Laughter].

	B:	She’s very sweet [inaudible 47:31]



	W:	Oh. She was so sweet. Yes. Yes. [inaudible 47:38]







	B:	Yes. Diana also runs the Gatorship program on campus. W:	Okay.

	B:	So I know she does a lot of work on teaching students how to view other students, specifically. So I know she talked about that as well.

	W:	Mmhm. Yup. Yup. She does. She definitely [inaudible 48:02] Kinda like seeing others. But she was talking also how like sometimes people just really resonate more when it’s like a personal thing, you know? And so that’s why she was like, “Look, we’re gonna put it in your shoes. So here’s you. Tell us a bunch of stuff about you and were gonna compare it to everybody else. You can see how different you are; you know?

	B:	Yeah.



	W:	And then that’s everybody’s. Like everybody’s [inaudible 48:30] is different and everybody is the same level unique and diverse and coming in with new experiences and new backgrounds and new memories and personality traits and everything.” And so it was really cool to have that breakdown of being put in the shoes of yourself and then also metaphorically someone else, you know?

	B:	Yeah. No, that’s amazing. Well, that’s pretty much the end of the interview. So if you have anything you would like to include or close out any remarks.

W:  Just that honestly nice to see how the majority of the generation that is now is more accepting and culturally aware of things, which is really awesome. UF is doing really good job of incorporating it throughout the campus. And honestly







throughout the yearly calendar. They post so many fun events all over a bunch of UF pages, which is like a really good way to have it known especially in like the multimedia time. Definitely just good [inaudible 49:37].

	B:	Perfect.



	W:	So thank you so much.



	B:	Thank you for having this interview. Honestly, taking the time out of your day especially on your trip.

	W:	Yeah, absolutely. No problem.



	B:	Alright. Well, thank you so much, Kiora. You’ll get a copy of the interview if you want as well.

	W:	Okay. Yeah. Thank you. B:	Alright. Thank you.

[End of Interview]









	Transcribed by: Sarah Louis, September 20, 2019 Audit-edited by: Sandra Romero, February 16, 2021 Final edit by:	Sandra Romero, February 19, 2021