AAHP 163; Small; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 163 Yasmin Small

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Ayana Flewellen on March 2, 2011 28 minutes | 15 pages



Abstract: Yasmin Small grew up in Brooklyn, Jacksonville, and South Florida. She speaks in this interview about Black beauty aesthetics, and how they relate to her life and experiences, mass media, and how beauty is represented and marketed, particularly in racially-marked ways.





Keywords: [African American History; Beauty; Aesthetics]





























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 163

Interviewee: Yasmin Small Interviewer: Ayana Flewellen Date: March 2, 2011



	F:	My name is Ayana Flewellen. I’m here on March 2nd with Yasmin Small, here in Pugh Hall at the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program office. We’re going to be discussing the different constructs of beauty here in the African American community. So, let’s get started. Could I ask you for your full name?

	S:	My name is Yasmin Paige Small.



	F:	Yasmin Paige Small. And where were you born? S:	In Brooklyn, New York.

	F:	Brooklyn, New York, wow. How long were you in New York?



	S:	I was there for five years, and then I moved down to Jacksonville, and then to South Florida. But I still visit there, like, every year.

	F:	Every year. That’s cool. What’s your date of birth? S:	Nine, twenty-four, 1990. [Laughter]

	F:	I was born in the [19]90s too, so we’re [19]90s babies. What would you, racially, I guess, categorize yourself as?

	S:	I categorize myself as Black. As just Black.



	F:	That’s cool. So, growing up in New York, how was that?



	S:	I actually don’t remember anything about growing up in New York; I couldn’t tell you. [Laughter] But I can tell you about visiting there. Like, how it was for me when I visit.

	F:	Well, you said that you grew up in South Florida as well, so how was that? S:	Growing up in South Florida was—it was different from, when I compare it to

Gainesville and other places that I’ve been, it was very different because of how







multicultural it is. Like, New York, there’s a lot of diversity there, but I feel there’s not as much interaction as you get in South Florida. Like, in South Florida, at first I was in an all-Black school. And then, in middle school, I transferred into this thing called the IB program, and that’s where I was introduced to all these different races and cultures and all these different things. So, I feel like South Florida is pretty multicultural, and I love that about it.

	F:	Definitely. So, how would you define beauty? S:	That’s hard to define! [Laughter]

	F:	Yeah, I know, it’s definitely an open-ended question.



	S:	I guess something that’s aesthetically pleasing to the eye. When you’re talking about beauty as—like, you can have a beautiful soul, you can have beautiful face, you can have a beautiful—. I guess it’s just preferences. I don’t really know how to describe it, I couldn’t really describe it for you, I’m sorry!

	F:	No, that’s fine. What would you, I guess, aesthetically—because you said “aesthetically pleasing.” So, what would you kind of—and you can just shout out different words or different phrases.

	S:	Like a beautiful person?



	F:	Yeah, or different pieces of clothing, even, you would describe as aesthetically pleasing.

	S:	I like things that are bright. I actually like a lot of symmetry. I really, I love that.



Things that are funky, a little bit different, I guess exotic. What else? I don’t really know. I feel like I’m in TOK [Theory of Knowledge]. I had a class where we had to, like, define what beauty and all these things were and I really couldn’t—I still







can’t. [Laughter] My paper had, like, three things on it, and everyone else was like, “love is beautiful, happiness is beautiful, this is beautiful,” and I was like, “I guess?” I don’t know, I guess for me beauty, I have to see it. It’s something I have to see. I don’t think that anyone’s personality makes them any more beautiful. I feel like it makes them a nicer person, but I still feel like your beauty is just what you look like, to me. So, I guess that’s why it’s so hard for me to actually define what beauty is.

	F:	It’s interesting. So, where do you normally see images? Because when people talk about Black women, or images of Black people, where do you normally see images portrayed of Black Americans?

	S:	Television is, most definitely—besides my own family. You see things on TV, and I feel like television is such a horrible portrayal of Black people in general.

Because it only fits one group, I feel, of the African American. Like, I’m from—my parents are from St. Lucia; it’s an island in the Caribbean. And I feel like Caribbean Americans aren’t really portrayed in African American films at all. Like, you never see our view on life, or our view on beauty—or anything, in general.

So, that’s where I feel like most of it comes from.



	F:	Do you think any stereotypes are portrayed through TV shows? S:	Yeah.

	F:	What kind?



	S:	Overall, supposedly loud. [Laughter] We have, we’re supposed to be, this accent that I don’t seem to have. We’re religious—we’re all supposed to praise God to the fullest. What else is there? There’s usually some type of drug abuse in the







family. Teenage pregnancies. What else can I say? Those are the basic stereotypes I see them portray in film, movies, television all the time regarding Black people.

	F:	And would you say—I guess, aesthetically, how would you describe most of the people who you see in TV shows?

	S:	They’re usually—they’re not too dark, but they’re not too light. If they’re light, their cast with a darker—like, if they’re a couple, the woman will usually be light, and the guy will be darker. And the woman, if she’s light, she has long, curly, curly hair. If she’s dark, she has permed hair, or relaxed hair, and it’s usually long as well. That’s been changing over the time, but for the most part, that’s what you see. They usually have pretty nice, pretty standard bodies; you don’t really see that many overweight or underweight. They’re usually pretty much the same.

	F:	And would you say that the Black community has control over the images that are portrayed about them through media outlets? Like, through TV, through magazines, and things of that sort?

	S:	I think we have control to a certain extent. In our own television programs, we can say, “Oh, we want this type cast,” but you still have appease to the greater audience, which isn’t only Black people. So, you have to make sure that you’re doing what the masses want, you know? Like—I can’t tell you an example right now, but—. [Laughter] We can look at Madea. Madea is the classical, like—I feel like she takes every stereotype there is about Black people and puts it all into a movie. And I guess that’s the point, but then I feel like it kind of backfires.

Because everybody watches those movies, and not everybody knows that that’s







not true. So. Tyler Perry could have chose not make a character like that, but if he hadn’t made her so stereotypical, would he have gotten all the praise that he has now?

	F:	So, I guess just a little more into what you do to achieve your beauty aesthetic.



How much would you say that you spend on beauty and hygienic products a month?

	S:	I spend more than I should! [Laughter] Monthly? Probably—are we talking about, like, clothes and everything?

	F:	Yeah.



	S:	Okay. Probably around two hundred dollars a month on everything altogether.



That’s bad.



	F:	I do the same. [Laughter] Right? So, would you say that keeping up with an aesthetic that’s pleasing to you is important?

	S:	It’s very important. It used to never be so important to me. I’m the first child of my mother’s, and the second of my father’s; and my dad’s daughter, she’s always been skinny, skinny, skinny model. She’s darker than me. I used to have a little lightskin complex when I was a little kid. [Laughter] Because me and my mom are the only truly, truly light-skinned people in our family. So like, she had one, I had one. So, she was the model, basically, of the family. So I never really cared about my appearance. I was like, “I’ll be the smart one, you can be the pretty one. And my sister can be the bad one. We all our places.” But then, I also had natural hair until I was seventeen.

	F:	And just to clarify, what would you define “natural hair” as?







	S:	[Laughter] I didn’t have relaxer in my hair. So, it wasn’t—and even though I was light-skinned, it wasn’t the little nice—well, nice—“nice” being easy-to-manage hair, long; everything like that. It was like a typical Black person’s hair. So, that made me feel not as beautiful compared to other people, because growing up, everyone had a relaxer in their hair. And my mother would not let me get one, for the life of her. So, I never used to really concentrate on being pretty, because I just felt like I wasn’t, so what was the point of even putting effort in? But then, when I was sixteen, I got my first job. And then, there was this guy there, and he used to call me “beautiful,” and “gorgeous,” and—all the time. And a number of guys used to do it. And I was like, “Whoa; you guys think I’m pretty?” [Laughter] And that’s when I probably started paying attention. That’s when I got into clothes—when I had my own job and could afford my own clothes, that’s when I started paying attention to it. Because I’d never wanted to bother my parents with the latest anything; they have four kids, I can’t be the only one asking for stuff.

So, finally, when I was sixteen, I started. What was the question again? I’m sorry, I went on such a tangent! [Laughter]

	F:	[Laughter] No, it’s fine, we can just hop to another one. But when did you decide to relax your hair?

	S:	I relaxed my hair first when I was seventeen. My hair is jet black, was naturally jet black. And when I was sixteen, I got it colored to this orange-red type of color.

And I thought it was the coolest thing. I just loved it! I loved my hair so much then. Then, that was when I started putting all these different styles with my natural hair. And everybody used to think it was a weave, but I was like, “No, it’s







my hair.” But although I could do all this stuff with my hair, it used to take hours, literally hours, to do my hair. And so there was just a point in time where I just got fed up, and I told my mom if she doesn’t take me to a professional to get my hair relaxed, I will do it myself. And most likely all my hair will fall out, but I don’t care, because I’m tired of doing it. And so, she took me in August of 2008. And I got my first relaxer. But I couldn’t even relax my hair completely because it had all the color in it, but it was a huge improvement from how it was before. I didn’t have to take care of it as much.

	F:	And what would you say the message is that people can convey with their hair, because you said you went through so many different hair styles. So, what would you so people can convey through their hair?

	S:	I feel like you can just—if you’re feeling like a rock star today, you can do little Mohawk; if you wanted to be subtle, or just be, like, demure, you can just keep your hair back, or down, thinned under; if you just feel like you want to be crazy, you can just do like Scary Spice, was how I used to wear my hair most of the time! [Laughter] I feel your hair tells a lot about a person, especially for Black people, I feel.

	F:	Why do you—because you said “especially for Black people.” Can you elaborate?

	S:	I feel like Black people have so many different hair styles. Like, it’s ridiculous going through—to have hair shows and things like that, and I’ve never seen any other race do that—or any ethnicity, whatever—care so much about hair. And I feel, I think we put a lot of effort into our hair. Definitely.







	F:	So what beauty and hygenic products do you usually buy, just on the regular, for your hair?

	S:	I used to—I have shampoo and conditioner. I used to put grease in my hair when I was a little kid, and I definitely found out that was not the right thing to put! [Laughter]

	F:	I used to always have grease in my hair. You used to be able to touch my hair, and you’d have all this gunk all over it. It would be godawful.

	S:	Yeah. But then my older sister told that it’s not good for your hair because it closes your pores? I don’t know, she said something. So, I stopped using that, and now I have this conditioner, like a leave-in conditioner. Eyeliner is my best friend. I don’t go anywhere without eyeliner on. Mascara, eyeshadow, lip gloss. So, these different things. So, yeah. Monthly, that’s probably what I spend—. And then, every other month, having to get a relaxer.

	F:	How much do your relaxers usually—? S:	They usually cost like sixty dollars.

	F:	And do you get your hair done here in Gainesville, or do you go back home?



	S:	I’ve had—. [Laughter] At first, the first time, I got it relaxed here twice. But I burn really easily, and I tell everybody that. But I feel like they don’t want to believe me. So I have to go through it, get burnt, and then they’ll finally understand that I really need the lightest relaxer they can put. So I did that twice here, and then I started going home because I wasn’t going to get it relaxed anymore, I was going to get the keratin in. It’s a treatment that’s not supposed to be as harsh as the relaxer. You put it in, and then you straighten your hair. It’ll keep it straight as







your hair can straighten itself, but it’ll only stay like that for a few washes. And my hair can’t really stay that straight by itself, so that didn’t really work out well. So, that was probably for—I did that at home three times, and I came back here and I relaxed it two more times here.

	F:	Where do you go when you get your hair done here in Gainesviile?



	S:	The first time I went to this—I can’t really remember what the place is called, the first time. But now I go to New Twist.

	F:	Do you like it there?



	S:	I like it. I like it a lot. It’s the best place I’ve been to in Gainesville, so.



	F:	A lot people say that beauty shops are a lot more than hair salons; you can actually talk to your beautician. So, do you have a bond or relationship with your beautician, or is it kind of just strictly, “Oh—.”

	S:	I’m not one—I feel like they’re nice enough that you could have a bond with them, but I’m just not one of those people that bond easily with others. [Laughter]

	F:	So, have you noticed any differences between the aesthetic that you ascribe to and that of your parents, like your mom or your aunt?

	S:	Yes. My mom loves long hair. That was her goal in life, after I got my hair relaxed: she was like, “Okay, now you can grow it out,” and blah blah blah, because my mom is mixed race. So, she’s Black and White, and so she’s always had really long, long hair. But then, after relaxing it so much, it started to break. And so, now it’s not even close to as long as how it used to be. And so, I think she’s trying to live that out through me, her little dream. But I definitely don’t like long hair at all! I feel like it is such a nuisance. And once I can get my hair to go







in a pony tail, that’s all I’ll do with it. So, I have to keep cutting my hair in order for it to look nice, for it to have a look. So, my mom’s obsessed with long hair. My aunt was obsessed with my natural hair. [Laughter] So, I think I went completely against both of them and just did my own thing. My grandma likes my hair.

	F:	Would you say that you’re the generational gap between you, your mom, and your grandma?

	S:	I feel like—me and my grandmother have more of, like—. My grandmother, when she was younger, she was more into fashion and things like that, and my mom wasn’t. So that’s why me and my grandmother can connect more than my mom. My mom wasn’t not into fashion, she was just into whatever the norm is; she didn’t like anything that was against the norm. And my grandmother loved things that were against the norm. So, I’m probably like a mixture of the two of them.

	F:	When you think of Black hair, what comes to mind? When someone would say, “Oh, describe Black hair to me,” what’s the first that pops into your head?

	S:	The first thing? Only because we see it so much, the first thing is an afro. But no one really rocks an afro anymore. It’s just that it’s the first thing I think of, because I feel like that’s the only thing that black people have that no other— well, not no other, but that’s characteristic of our race. You know? But, yeah. I see an afro, and then when I think about it, I think of relaxers, because most of the girls have relaxer and most boys have brush cuts. It’s so different, Black people have so many different textures of their hair, you know? It’s just so much. I can’t describe it! [Laughter]







	F:	It’s interesting when people talk about hair, and they have those two very different types. You have the extreme image of a Black woman with a fro, and then you have the image of the woman with the relaxer. But like you said, there’s so much—

	S:	—in between. There is. Because I feel like there’s not that many Black people who are just purely Black. And first of all, Black is a social construct. So, you can’t really try and categorize people’s hair into a race, I feel.

	F:	I like that. So do you that think people can convey political messages through—?



Or do you think that’s just a bit too fa-fetched when others mention it?



	S:	I feel it’s a little bit far-fetched when people mention it. I can see maybe at one point, it could’ve been used for that, but now I feel a hair style’s just a hair style for people.

	F:	Because in the [19]70s you know, or in the [19]60s, people would wear it, and it would be this kind of symbol.

	S:	Yeah, Black power. But now I just feel like it’s—I don’t feel like it’s the same, or it’s as strong as it used to be. Sorry. [Laughter]

	F:	No. No, that’s perfectly fine. In fact, I very much agree with you. [Laughter] So, don’t even worry about it. Is there anything else that you wanted to comment on? Since I opened with an opening question, I guess I can end with one. When you think of the term Black beauty, or “Black is beautiful,” what do you think of?

	S:	When I think of Black is beautiful, I really feel like it’s just an acceptance of who you are as a Black woman, or as a Black person that’s beautiful. Because Black isn’t just a dark, dark person. It isn’t just a light person. It isn’t just a person in







between. It’s just whoever you are, and you’ve finally accepted that what you are is beautiful. It does take a long time to accept it. It’s taken me a long time to accept it. But once you do, you understand that no matter what, and no matter what society says, you are beautiful.

	F:	Do you think that Black women have a difficult time just accepting that they’re beautiful?

	S:	I think Black women have a very hard time accepting that they’re beautiful. And I feel like Black women kind of feel like the only people that think they’re beautiful is Black men. And that’s why they get mad when Black men want to be with people from different races, and other things like that. But it’s not true. I know that’s not true. [Laughter] So. It’s also because, especially growing—even on UF’s campus, they make it seem like you have to fit a certain stereotypical Black woman in order to be beautiful. Like you have to be light-skinned, long hair, thick, red bone. Basically, they had something about it, but that’s exactly what it is. You have to be light-skinned, you have to have long hair, and you got to be thick. And as many guys can come and say, “No, no, no, that’s not true.” But if you see what they’re usually going after, or what they aspire for, that’s the type of Black woman it is: a Black woman you can’t really tell is Black or not. I feel like that’s what you really want. And I wish I could go against the grain, but I can’t dye my color. So, the most I can do is change my hair.

	F:	Because you touched upon the long hair thing, red bone: do you feel as if these images or these depictions of an ideal Black woman that, like you said yourself,







that no one really fits into, do you think that that controls how other people view, or how Black women are viewing themselves?

	S:	Yes.



	F:	And what effect do you think that it has on them?



	S:	Look at how many people wear weave just to make their hair longer. Even I put a weave in for two hours, and then I took it out because I could not handle it! [Laughter] But I feel like you think that—someone could be ugly, and as long as they have two out of three, they’re suddenly to die for, all these guys want them. Or like, their personality could be horrible, but as long as they fit that criteria, these guys want her. I feel like they don’t let you have room for adjustment.

There are so many people that are beautiful, but they have natural hair. Or they’re skinny, or they’re overweight, but they don’t let that persuade them. It’s just this little stereotype that they want. And many people say that Black women don’t have eating disorders, things like that, but that’s so untrue! That is very untrue, because you try to ascribe to this beauty that’s impossible. You don’t know if you should go with what White people think are beautiful; you don’t know if you should go with what your own race thinks is beautiful; you don’t know where you fit in. That’s why you just have to accept yourself for who you are, or else you go crazy being a Black woman.

	F:	Yeah, definitely. And you even mentioned, like, kind of just creating your own space. Even because I know you’re a part of BWII, what importance do you think that group has for Black women on this campus?







	S:	I feel like that group is all about accepting yourself. And accepting yourself for who you are, and understanding that who you are is important no matter what. And no matter what anyone says, or where you think you do or don’t fit in, you fit in there because you are a Black woman.

	F:	And do you think that that space is needed for Black women to get together?



	S:	I think it’s definitely necessary, but I don’t feel like people understand how necessary it is. And people don’t understand what exactly it is that we’re aiming for. So.

	F:	And I’m sorry, just to clarify: the goal for the group, or what you are aiming for?



	S:	Our motto is “Awake, arise, distinguish yourself.” And everyone has their own take on that. I feel like “awake” is, you realize who you are. “Arise,” you get to this point where you want to do better for yourself. And “distinguish yourself,” you go and you do that. And I feel like that’s what the group really just wants. It’s all about self-betterment. [Laughter] That’s not a word, but I think I’ll make it one today!

	F:	No problem. Do you have any last closing remarks, or any questions? S:	No. Do you have anything else you want to ask me?

	F:	I’m good.



	S:	Okay.



	F:	So, thank you—



	S:	No problem.



	F:	So much. [End of interview]











	Transcribed by:	Jessica Lancia



	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, November 9, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 20, 2019