AAHP 493; Williams; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 493 Faye Williams

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Justin Dunnavant on May, 2017 1 hour, 42 minutes | 51 pages



Abstract: Faye Williams was born and raised in the Gainesville, Florida. In vibrant detail, Williams tells stories about the people, businesses of Porters Quarters and what life was like growing up as a child during segregation. Williams delves into how the University of Florida’s development has imposed itself upon the historically Black community. Williams talks about women-led efforts in the Porters Quarters community including how her grandmother founded the Church of God in her living room.



Keywords: [Gainesville; Porters Quarters; University of Florida; Gentrification; Black History; Community Organizing; Mama’s Club; Eastside High ]



















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 493

Interviewee: Faye Williams Interviewer: Justin Dunnavant Date: May 7, 2017



	D:	All right, good afternoon. My name is Justin Dunnavant and I’m here with Faye Williams. And today is May 7, 2017. And we are at Mama’s Club here in Gainesville.

	W:	Woo! Mama’s Club.



	D:	Thank you again for sitting down with me, Ms. Williams.



	W:	Thank you Justin. It’s only taken almost three years to have this discussion. D:	Yeah, it’s been a while. [Laughter]

	W:	I hope it will be worth your time.



	D:	Definitely. I apologize. I’m glad we’re finally doing it. We just wanted to get some background on your life growing up here in Gainesville. So what that experience was like and those sorts of things. So, I know that you’re from Gainesville originally.

	W:	Yes



	D:	Would you talk a little bit about where you’re from and where you were born and your background?

	W:	Yeah. Well, I began right across the street. You see that sign, it says, “Welcome to Porters.” But the people who have been living there for over a hundred forty years says Porters Quarters. [Laughter] We put “Porters” because there’s a lot of White people moving into the neighborhood and they didn’t like that term, “Porters.” But the people who are still over there, like my mom, my aunties, they still call it Porters Quarters. So that’s where I grew up, right across the street at Main Street. Closer to Depot Avenue and 13th Street. And I lived there from being





born there and, I think eleven when I was in the 6th grade. So I moved around Gainesville a couple times, but my heart was always in Porters. You know, my spirit would always call out, you know, Porters would be the name. I would have dreams and I would have dreams about Porters. And so when I decided to come back home, I knew exactly where I was coming back. And my mom still lives over there. So, it’s changing. No question about it. But the folks who have been there for a minute, they holding on. You know, the area that I live in, most of the folks own their homes. 95% of them really own their homes, they’re trying to hold on.

Of course, the University of Florida is trying to buy property and houses. We respond with, we don’t care how much money you’re offering us, we’re not selling our houses, our homes. You know, I want to keep it for my grandchildren, my great-great-grands. So they’re holding on.

	D:	Are your parents originally from Porters as well? W:	huh?

	D:	Are your parents originally from Porters as well?



	W:	Yes, uh-huh. Yes, yes. Yes, my mother’s side—on 6th street. It used to be called Dell Quarters. That’s where my mother grew up. And then my father grew up very close, I it’s three blocks from here. I think it was still called Porters. So, you know, all of this was the Black neighborhood. So, you know, Dell Quarters and New Porters Quarters. And I forget the name of the other quarter. So, yeah, all of this was the Black neighborhood. And over here the University of Florida and the city has taken more land, much more land. But the people of Porters, they stand





their ground. So they’re like, “Okay, you may get it, but it’s gonna be a struggle.” [Laughter] You may eventually get it, but it’s really gonna be a struggle.

	D:	Right



	W:	And my grandmother was a founder of the church. And the church is now 111 years old. And it’s still standing. Still standing. The Church of God. And she couldn’t—it’s interesting. It was founded it in her living room, but she couldn’t become the pastor because she was a woman. So she had to go out in the neighborhood and find a man who had less education and he became the pastor. Isn’t that amazing?

	D:	That’s amazing.



	W:	Yeah, but the sad thing about it is, it still happens today. To tell you the truth. [Laughter]

	W:	You see all these big houses? Founded by the women, but they always have to find a man to stand up to be the pastor. Yeah

	D:	yeah



	W:	So one of my struggles right now is to get the city to recognize the Church and the Preservation Committee before it falls apart. It’s still—it’s living. It’s still got prosper and we’re trying to tell the fans that we really need money from the Preservation Committee. And I guarantee you, if it was over in Northwest Gainesville it would be done by now. But this is Southwest. So Southwest and Southeast where African-Americans live, we don’t get much attention, so.

	D:	What was it like growing up around here in Porters?



	W:	From what I remember. You know I’m old now. [Laughter]





	W:	What I remember, it was great for me. You know, it’s where I learned to play football, basketball, softball, jacks, most of the while I played with the baby dolls. Most of the while. It was just a Black community, you know. So, I went to A. Quinn Jones. So we would walk over to A. Quinn Jones, that’s on 6th Avenue.

And so I did that from first grade to fourth grade. And then I went to Kirby Smith, it was 5th grade through the 6th grade. And um, you know from what I can remember it was great living in Porters because we were in school together, we lived together, it was a Black community. And then when I had to go over to Kirby Smith, I started noticing certain things. Because that was the so-called integration part of it, I guess. And I started noticing little things like the fact that when we would have gym, it was the Black students who would have to go back—not go back, but just stay out there and we would have to take the bats and the basketballs and put ‘em in the bag and take them back to the school.

And the White students would just leave and go and get back in their seats and go and wash up but it was our responsibility to—

	D:	To clean up?



	W:	To pick up everything and we would clean up. So I started noticing that around 4th and 5th grade.

	D:	Did you have any Black teachers at Kirby-Smith? W:	No. No. [Laughter]

	W:	No, no, no. Not that I remember. D:	Right. [Laughter]





	W:	So, that kind of racism. You know you sort of realize really young. I mean, that wasn’t my first experience with racism. But just being in public school, it’s pretty powerful to see that, to experience that.

	D:	Were there a group of y’all from Porters that went to Kirby-Smith?



W:  Mmhm. Yup. And we would leave Porters and go right out front. We didn’t go on Main Street, because we weren’t allowed to come on Main Street. We would go right up on 3rd Street and come back this way through University Avenue—yeah, University Avenue that would lead us right to Kirby Smith.

D:   Oh, wow.



	W;	And you know, when we got adjusted to Kirby Smith we realized that there was a big statue standing right there on University Avenue. And it’s been there since 1904 and I couldn’t really understand what it was about. But I just knew something, that was offensive. One day I remember standing by and there was a Black couple, and this Black said, “You know, I fought a battle for this country and that soldier should not be standing there.” He just said that and I was just like, “What is he talking about?” But I was young but I did know that it upset him and the woman he was walking with. You know, I don’t know, it just—just hit me hard. So, you know, I come back, and it’s still there.

	D:	Still there?



W:   Mmhm. Yup, still there.



	D:	What did—What did your parents do for a living? W:	Hmm?

	D:	Your parents—What did your parents do for a living?





	W:	Yeah, my mom—she didn’t go to college. So she had several jobs, she was a— that’s a sandwich maker over at, what’s it? This Cuban restaurant that used to be right here on University Avenue. So she did that—what’s the name of it?

	D:	I know what you’re talking about



	W:	Yeah, yeah. So she worked there. I think her last job was at Atatale? I always mess up the name. We used to call it Sunland; it’s an Indian name.

	D:	Oh.



	W:	Tacachale? Tacachale. Yeah. Tacachale on Waldo Road. So she was sort of like a physical therapist but she didn’t have a degree in that area. So she worked there for like 25 years.

	D:	Wow



	W:	and my dad. He had a lot of work with Badcock Furniture. He was selling cards. He was a Marine. He was cooking as a Marine. So they had different jobs, you know. It was just really—I look back and think, How did they make it with seven children? You have a degree these days, you can make a little money.

	D:	Right. [Laughter]



	W:	But it was a community because at that age, you had your grandmother, you had your uncles, your aunts. You know, so that was the melting pot. That was the melting pot, but not anymore. [inaudible 31:34]

	D:	Outside of your immediate family, were there any figures that stood out in youre neighborhood? Older figures?

	W:	Mmhm. Umm, the people over at Quarters. [inaudible 1:31:32] Because I lived across the street from her. She was a teacher, and she impressed me. You





know, I would sit on the porch and watch her a lot. I knew that she had gone to college and she was trying to do something in the neighborhood. So I respected her. And when I moved away from Porters, then I admired Ike, Ike.

	D:	I’ve heard of Ike



	W:	You’re heard of Ike? Yeah, well it really was a bar. And that’s where she would go to get drunk.

[Laughter]



	W:	Fall out the door. But had some good fish up there. [Laughter] So that’s where I would go to get a piece of fish if I had a little bit of money. And eventually, they shut it down, the city shut it down. But people always say, you know, it’s a good thing that they shut Ike’s down, but they don’t understand that not only did he have that bar, but he paid people’s tuition, he paid folks’ utilities, he paid peoples’ rent. That underground economy that we have in all Black communities it’s never recognized—And it should be, really.

	D:	Right



	W:	So he did a lot. He was one of the people I know that was one my heroes. D:	Yeah

	W:	A book should be written about Ike. He had a major impact on the community D:	Right.

	W:	Mmhm. Major impact.



	D:	Do you know his last name? W:	Now that you ask me—.

	D:	It’s all right.





[Inaudible 1:29:25]



	D:	So what was the reason for y’all moving in the 6th grade.



	W:	Oh yeah, because basically we lived in a shack. I mean really, seriously. You know when you’ve got seven kids. By that time my mom and dad had separated. And Mom and—what’s it called? Bunk beds. So my three sisters—I had three brothers and three sisters, and, you know, they would sleep in the bedroom, and my mom would sleep in her bedroom. Sometimes I slept with her, but most of the time I slept on the couch because of shock, and so it was a shack. The day we were moving, I guess, it’s almost like the spirit was holding up the ceiling, the day we moved, the day we moved out, it just crushed in.

	D:	Oh wow.



	W:	yeah, because you know, you moving furniture. My mom would say, now why you crying. I said nobody got hurt. She said now that’s the whole point. It could have crashed in on us. It waited. It waited until we were moving out. So we left Porters and we moved to Lake Road, because that was public housing. And so that was great progress because then we had four bedrooms. I had my own—I think my youngest sister used to sleep with me. So that’s when we had some progress in terms of housing. And then I had to change schools.

	D:	What was that community like? W:	Lake Road?

	D:	Same as Porters. Because it was all Quarter folks and we were glad to be together and proud of the fact that we lived in subsidized housing. We didn’t call it subsidized housing, it was the projects! You know, and we knew each other,





we went to the same school, we ride the bus together. You know we wore each other’s clothes, we had breakfast together. It was just our spot, you know, our spot. No White folks lived at Lake Road. We didn’t mind. It was ok! It was a Black neighborhood. The parents knew each other, the children knew each other. It was beautiful. Not to say that we didn’t have problems. We had major problems. I mean you know, but some kind of way it was resolved.

[Interrupted at 1:26:24]



	D:	All right, so we were talking a little bit about when you moved to— W:	Lake Road?

	D:	Lake Road, uh-huh. And that community—was there a lot of people from Porters who moved out to that community?

	W:	No, it was all over. [Inaudible 1:25:03] All over the city, because that was the place to be. You know, high up, high up on the poverty level. On Lake Road. [Laughter] It was Lake Road Estates. We had [inaudible 1:25:45] So we had people from North and Southeast, a few folks from like the Augusta Oaks area.

	D:	And did your grandparents still stay in Porters, then? W:	Hmm?

	D:	Your grandparents still stayed at Porters? W:	Yes, uh-huh.

	D:	And what school did you relocate to, when you moved out there? W:	On Lake Road, they had just started Eastside.

	D:	Okay.





	W:	So we were proud of that—that was our school—the Black school. Everything was new, you know everything worked. So I went to Eastside from, let’s see. No let me go back because when I moved to Lake Road, I was in the—so then I went to Howard Bishop, I went to Buchholz, and then I went to Eastside. Yeah the bus would pick us up and we would have to go to Howard Bishop and then Buchholz. And then when I got in the seventh grade, yeah seventh to ninth grade, I went to Eastside. And that’s when the issues started happening. Things changed bigtime. Because, umm, I was chosen, as they say, chosen, to be part of the [inaudible 1:24:05] University of Florida. And I was happy, I was happy to be able to get out of Lake Road to catch Bus 5. They would pick us right up at University Avenue—I mean Hawthorne Road and take us to University of Florida. I would get off the bus where they used to have Krystal’s and go across the street and go over to the [inaudible 1:23:30]. And we would stay over there the whole day and they would give use thirty dollars and we thought we were rich.

We have a whole thirty dollars! This was summertime. You know because we were poor! We didn’t have any money. If you were part of a program, you were making progress. So we’d have money and we would go over to Krystal’s and buy a soda. And take the rest home to our mom, like 5 or 10 dollars. But the problem started when I started learning more and more about Black people. You know I had just gotten the books. Porters and I started reading more and more. It’s funny ‘cause I was sitting in Samantha’s Library and it was a file just like this, someone had left on the table. And I said, let’s what they’re reading. Because they would take us over there to Library and I was bored so I said, “Let me see





what they’re reading.” And I happened to open it and it was Zora Neale Hurston. Her picture and I had no idea who Zora Neale Hurston was. And I started reading a little bit and I was like, ‘Oh, so she’s from Florida.” And I said, “Okay, I’m going to find out more about this woman.” So every time I would go to this library I would ask the person, “Do you know about Zora Neale Hurston, do you know about James Baldwin?” And they said, “Yeah, how do you know about them?” I said because I read it in the paper. So they said, “Go over there and do some more research on Zora Neale Hurston.” They should have never told me to do that because that was it. That was it. [Laughter] That was it. You know, you’re supposed to be able to come to the University of Florida and just sort of relax a little bit, and you know, learn how to communicate with others. I didn’t want to communicate with anybody. All I wanted to do was read. ‘Cause communicating meant you had to socialize, you know, I didn’t want to socialize, and dancing and hanging out. I’m like, Why are we doing all this? We’ve got the University right here, we’ve got the library, we can dance at home! You don’t come to college to dance! You come to college to read. So, I tried to stay in the library. That created a big problem because then, I mean it was one thing to get into the University of Florida because I then discovered that the Black Student Union was over at UF. And they were talking about we need more Black professors, we need more Black this, we need our schools—all the public schools should be teaching Black History. So you know. I said okay! I took it back to my school and said, “You should be teaching us Black History!” [Laughter] So, you know what the answer was, right? Get up out of here.





	D:	This was the 1970s?



	W:	Uh-huh. Yeah, yeah. 1970s. And it’s really just sad, because you know that’s when they decided that I couldn’t go back to Eastside. They put me out of Eastside.

	D:	Wow



	W:	I will never forget the day they pulled me to the side. His name was John Dukes, a Black man. Pulled me to the side and told me that I could not be harassing the teachers about Black History. I said, “Harassing? What do you mean harassing?” “Why do you keep asking these questions about Black History? That’s not part of the syllabus, that’s not the reason why you’re in school. You need to learn about this person, this person, this person.” Okay. So I said, “Well, at lunchtime, can we talk about Black History?” They said, “Yeah, you can talk about Black History.” So that’s what we would do in the cafeteria, start talking about Black History. And a couple of us said, “Well, we can almost like teach Black History. We can teach y’all what they teach us over at the University of Florida.” So me and Sandra Epps and a few others got together and said, “We’re the leaders, so let’s be the leaders, and what we’ll do during lunchtime is get in the corner, everybody and we’ll take fifteen minutes and let them know something about Black History.” And one day, Mr. John Dukes came here and said, “That’s not going to happen in our school. Now if you want to teach Black History, you go out back there by the tree. And you teach out there.” He didn’t know that was open space. [Laughter] So we started out like fifty students, we got about two hundred. And then what happened, he called my uncle, cause he was friends with my uncle. My uncle





owned the barbershop on east side of the city. And he was also—I don’t know if he was the President, but he was highly-high on the level. We had the Barber Committee. So he was active in that. So him and Dukes. Well he came up to the school and Dukes called him into the office. And my uncle told me, “Get your bag. This is your last time here at Eastside.” I said, “What?” They said, “Yeah, you’ve been acting up for a minute and we keep telling you, you can’t teach no Black History in here.” That hurt my feelings, and I mean, that was just like it. So they pretty much got rid of me. And the next day I can still remember John Dukes coming over to my house, telling me, “You know Faye, you’re smart, and you should be happy to go over there to GHS and work with the White students. And because you’re a leader, they’ll make you a powerful leader and you should be happy, and that’s that.” I said, “Wow.” I know I was thinking that’s a whole lot of [inaudible 1:16:55] for a Black man. I said, “Why can’t I be smart over at Eastside? Why do I have to be smart to go to GHS? What is that about?” He said, “I’ve already set up stuff over there for you.” And he was right. They had [inaudible 1:16:36] She was in the Army, she was a major person in the Army.

One of the Majors. They set it up the right way. She wanted me to graduate from GHS and then enlist in the Army. I refused, I said, “The Army! Are you crazy?” [Laughter] You know they gave me the American Legion Award.

	D:	Wow



	W:	Yeah, I was shocked to get that. Just the fact that they would take me out of my school because I only wanted to learn my history. It was devastating. Then the other students they fell apart too because they didn’t want to get suspended or





expelled or mom and dad to beat them for a minute because they teaching Black history. So it just fell apart and that was their intention.

	D:	Wow. Was there anybody who stood out saw what was happening and try and stop Dukes or anything?

	W:	You mean in terms of students?



	D:	Yeah the students or other people from the University?



	W:	Not really, you know, he was the principal so everybody respected him. It was hard to get a Black principal in Gainesville. He was the only one. It was a new school. It was the [19]70s, it was the real beginning of integration in Gainesville. So you would walk in stride. Walk in stride. If anybody stood up for us, I don’t know. I just know they came down on us pretty hard.

	D:	Was it just you that they took it out on? Or it did they take it out on the whole department?

	W:	I think I’m the only one. I run into all the people all the time and they say, “Faye, remember when they took you out of Eastside?” I say, “Yeah. Were you part of it? Did they kick you out?” Nope, nope. I say, “Wow, okay, but you remember that, huh?” They say, “We always knew you were going to do something great.” You know because they knew about [inaudible 1:14:14]. I would come home for Christmas and see everybody. So I don’t really know who else got kicked out but I hope not. But who knows? Yeah, so I went over to GHS and—

	D:	What was that like? I mean I can guess but—[Laughter]



	W:	Yeah, it was; it was hard. One, I didn’t want to be there and then it was mostly White students and they were racist, just like their parents. And, you know, I tried





to join—if you wanted to—you know different clubs, most of the clubs happen in the evening. So if you didn’t have a ride you couldn’t join a bunch of clubs. So I did join the Student Government and help to create the Black Student Union over there. And that was a struggle. And, you know, a few other groups. But, you know, my spirit—I didn’t feel—I never felt like I loved GHS, you know. Because there was no love there. There was no love there from the teachers, there was no love from the principals. The students, they were horrible. Absolutely horrible, and racist. [Laughter] And it was no wonder. And the few Black people who went there, it was less than—my, cousin—it was maybe like ten. Ten, yeah, that I really knew. That I got close to. But for the most part.

	D:	What was it like 100 students?



	W:	Yeah, and we were the so-called leaders. So they had chosen the Black leaders from different schools and said, “Oh y’all need to go to GHS.” And so we did. 9th grade. As soon as we did that, we pretty much wanted to leave them. ‘There’s nothing here for us, let’s go y’all!’ Only way to get out of here. The good thing about it—You know, now I can see this, that we had counselors who encouraged us to go to college, they, you know, they had their whole system set up for white folks. So, you were part of that system. And then at Eastside, it was like, “Do you even want to go to college?” But they didn’t have counselors over there. They didn’t have anybody really encouraging them. Yeah, the same old, same old. So I see the good and the bad of it.

	D:	Difficult choices.





	W:	Yeah, that place, I had a couple scholarships to go to college. I really should have chosen Oberlin. But I made the mistake and—[Laughter] I just wanted to get out of Gainesville. I made a big mistake and chose FSU. [Laughter] I was like, “Hell no. I’m not staying here! Give me my money.” [Laughter] I remember I went into the Financial Office. I was like, “Give me my money! What the hell is wrong with you? This the Federal Government money and it belongs to me!” So they said, “We’ll give you your money. In about another three weeks, you’ll have your money.” I thought they would just give me my check, you know? It didn’t work like that

	D:	Oh wow.



	W:	So I got my money. Every weekend, I was back home here. D:	Yeah?

	W:	Right back home. I missed my sisters and brothers. I would catch a ride from Tallahassee. They would say, “Why do you keep coming back? And nothing over here happening.” So you know, you had to enroll for five or six courses?

	D:	Right



	W:	I ended up going to—I know his last name is Jones. His book was called, Jesus was a Black Man.

	D:	Yeah



	W:	And so I went to his course. Dr. Jones, so I enrolled in his class twice. And he said, “Excuse me, young woman. But didn’t you just learn this?” I said, “Yes.” He said, “You can’t have me for two—.” I said, “Well, I’m not going to the rest of my classes so the class might as well come to you.” [Inaudible 1:09:24]





He said, “Okay, but I can’t give you credit for two classes.” I said, “I don’t need no credit. I don’t need no credit.” [Laughter]

	W:	This class isn’t required. You know, you teaching me something. He go, “Okay.” So you know, obviously I flunked out the first year. I think I bought a couple of books. I didn’t even open those books. I said, “That class can’t teach me nothing.”

	D:	Did you declare a major or any of that? W:	Hmm?

	D:	Did you declare a major?



	W:	Yeah—. [Laughter] I was there two semesters, so it didn’t matter. I said, “Okay, I don’t need to go to college.” So I didn’t even go back to college until. I went to college in 1989. [Inaudible 1:08:28]. Started spending time over there, spending twice a week over at the university.

	D:	So after FSU, you came back to Gainesville, then?



W:  Yes, for a minute. Came back here. Couldn’t adjust to it, the racism. Cause I saw so much and I was just like, “Wow.” Just going to different stores. It was horrible. And we’re talking about 1975 and it was horrible. So I said, “I got to get up out of here some kind of way.” So I went back to Tallahassee and stayed there for, until 1977. Wait a minute—no. 1973, came back home, moved to Tallahassee in 1977 and I left there in 1982. I went to D.C.

D:   What took you to D.C.?



W:   I guess my thing was Black History.



	D:	That’s not a bad thing to have. [Laughter]





	W:	Yeah, Black History. You know, living in Gainesville, I had joined the—it was a book club. It was all about the African Socialist Party. So I joined the African Socialist Party. And they were teaching me so much. That was the best thing that could have happened to me. After [inaudible 1:06:32]. We took the bus up and went to Malcolm X Park, and it was 60,000 people there. Black folks! Political Black folks, okay! I still get that feeling like, “Yes! This is my Africa right here.” And I always remember just sitting at a tree the whole day and just crying. I don’t remember the speeches, I don’t remember anything. The only thing I remember was seeing [inaudible 1:05:58] pass by. I said, “That is Stokely Carmichael right there, right in front of me!” And he had his group and contestion piece. He was the man. I go, “Oh God, here we go again.” So what’s the deal here? With all that power. So that was in 1976 and unfortunately we had to come back home. And I always said, ‘At some point, I’m going to live in D.C. And that didn’t happened until 1982 when one of my friends, Margaret Carey, lived in Key West, but she attended school at University of Florida. Brilliant woman, brilliant. And she called me one day and said, “Faye, I’ve been meaning to go to D.C. cause I’m going to Georgetown, I gained a scholarship, and I’m going to study and I’m going to come back, and I’m going to work on voter registration. And I said, “Well the only thing I’m going to say it, ‘You better come by and pick me up.’” She said, “What time?” I said, “Let’s do it as soon as possible.” She came by and picked me up in a little station wagon, in a little Volkswagen, and orange Volkswagen. And I said, “How am I going to—I can’t go with you because I’ve got all my books.” Didn’t have no clothes, nothing. In my suitcase, I just had books. [Laughter] She said,





“You’re crazy.” I said, “Well, what am I going to do? We can’t just leave my books. She said, “Well, you’re gonna have to ship them up to you or something because I’m getting ready to go.” I said “Okay.” So I left my suitcase and they did ship it up to me. And didn’t have no clothes with me. And she worked, she did write the choice though. She said, “Now, you’ve got the opportunity, you can enroll, we can make it happen if you want.” I said, “Nah, you go ahead. You know, I’m going just check out the scene. [Laughter] So she went and finished her degree, became a lawyer. And now she’s the judge. Judge Cary in Jackson, Mississippi.

	D:	Okay, wow.



	W:	My wish is one day, she’ll be on the Supreme Court. Yeah, check her out. Her name is now Margaret Carey-Greene in Jackson, Mississippi. I said, “Well do you want to stay there?” She said, “Yeah, this is the place to be for voter registration. This is the place right here.” Now this one here is a little nutty, I want to see where he’s going. Perhaps he’ll come back.

	D:	What part of D.C. did y’all live in?



	W:	I lived in, well I moved around a lot. [Laughter] Whenever, I lost my job. Sleep on somebody’s sofa for a minute. But then they’d get irritated with me. “Get out! Go and find a job!” I said, “No! Not another job! Please, Please. Please!” I thank all the sisters, and the brothers, who took care of me because I couldn’t work. My mind was just like, I don’t know, Maybe I’m going crazy but it’s all about reading books. You know and going to different events and coming back and then having a discussion with everybody and they look at you like you’re crazy. ‘Cause they





didn’t go, they didn’t really know what happened yet. But I was not holding back. For at least two years. Then I decided, “Okay, I’m going to get a job.”

	D:	Was there any space that you frequented a lot?



	W:	Besides the [inaudible 1:02:30] office? Besides the SNCC folks’ office? Well I was at the Mayor’s office, the Pride community, always at the library. You know, all the bookstores. You know, just, I would hitch a ride over to Virginia and Maryland, the different universities and same thing in the library. All the time they would have speakers and events, I would attend those events. But I guess if I had to choose one thing, I think it would just be being around that area, and learning so much, I mean it was a forward time. You know the only thing, he was smoking crack. I mean that guy was just something. I mean his spirit, you just had to be around him in the same room. You know, he was loving, but he was also offensive at times. He was sexist, he was, you know. And classist at times.

But he was always for the people. He messed up along the way, but we always forgave him. Even when he got out of jail, we took buses to him. How do you get a caravan to go pick up somebody from jail? Then he comes back and gets elected again. Sixteen years as the mayor. And the White folks are like, “What the hell?” They had no idea, because the whole time he was in prison, he was organizing. He said, “Y’all need to go to this community and tell them I’m coming back and you know, help me out this time.” All the Black pastors would show up at the prison and then go back and tell them, “Marion is coming back. Are we ready?” You know, so that’s the way they organized, you didn’t have to go out in the street. The Black pastors said, ‘Okay we gone make this happen.’ The White





folks were like, “Oh my God, I cannot believe they would elect Marion again.’ Yeah they did that, for a lot of reasons. One was just to prove something to the White folks, that we do have power. We do have that power. We may not own the schools or we may not own the stores, but we do have Black Power with our votes. So, yeah, that was—they got—oh God. Then—mm.

	D:	And so you stayed in D.C. for—? W:	Oh—I’m sorry: 1982 until 2012. D:	Oh, wow.

	W:	Mhmm. Thirty years. D:	Thirty years.

	W:	Yeah, thirty years.



	D:	So you had the bookstore up there for a bit?



	W:	Mmhm. [Inaudible 57:59] That was just another crazy thought that I had. [Laughter] You know. Just inner circles. Just a circle. And uh-oh let me just back up a minute. My partner, who was Cassandra Burton, and so she owned a consignment shop. Clothes consignment. We started noticing that—at the time I was still in college so. I was at George Washington University. 1989 to 1994.

And, but, I started doing like marketing, really. Printing some flyers and putting them on people’s cars. That’s the marketing I was doing. Say, ‘Hey, everybody, we’ve got a new Black consignment shop!’ ‘Cause we had consignment shops, but none owned by Black women. So then you start bringing the crowd and we would notice on Saturdays, a lot of women would come in with black eyes, just domestic violence. It’s really high in Gainesville. So I said, “You know, we can’t





continue to ignore this. We gotta sit down and talk to these sisters about what’s happening to them.”

	D:	Right



	W:	So I said, “Okay, let’s go in a little circle. You know, you come, shop at like 12 o’clock, but before you start, let’s do something early in the morning like 10 o’clock. 10 or 12.” And people who really, you know, need to get in the circle, they would show up early.

	D:	Right



	W:	And then, you know, other folks come, they would know what was going on. And so set it up, and we thought, “Well okay.” We had three people first—a month or two. By about three months later, we had over fifty people showing up. Talking about domestic violence, being raped—you know, cause it’s students from Howard, we were close to Howard.

	D:	Right



	W:	On University Avenue—I mean, U Street. D:	U Street, that’s right.

	W:	And so, the students would come in and counselors would refer people to us.



The counselors were even referring people to us. And we didn’t have those kinds of skills, you know, we’re not counselors, we didn’t have psychiatrists, we can’t continue to do this because they would break down! And we wouldn’t know what to do except give them a hug. Then then go home and just kind of flip out.

	D:	Didn’t know how to deal with that.





	W:	So yeah, yeah. So then we started to call in like the Rape Crisis Center and other people who could really help them. And so, we said, “Okay now, this is a consignment shop, but we gotta do a little bit more than sell clothes.” And the woman next door to us, she just happened to move out. So I said, “Oh, this is a spot for us, right?” The landlord didn’t know that she had left! So we didn’t tell her! [Laughter] That wasn’t our responsibility! [Laughter] I said, “You know what? I’m gonna bring some books up here. Something to really inform the people—the women about, you know, what they can do. And, you know, brochures, and ledgers. Then we can have our little sister circle right here in this place.” So we got that for like three or four months, and that was great! It just grew and grew and grew. And one day, we were in the shop and I said—You know we did this memory circle—“What would you do if you had enough money and enough support?” So we went around the circle, and it got to me and I said, “Well, I always wanted to own a bookstore.” And everybody applauded, “Yes! That’s exactly what we need!” So once they applauded, it was like, that whole week, I kept thinking about that bookstore. Thinking about that bookstore. And I made that decision. I had been accepted to law school at George Washington University. So I said, “I don’t need to become a lawyer. You know, all my friends, they’re lawyers. I don’t need—that doesn’t inspire me. I know it’s useful, I can use it, but I just feel like we need to have a Black-owned bookstore. You know and I said, a Black feminist bookstore. And I went down to the library again, and I said, “I want to open a bookstore. Is there anybody here that can help me?” And they said, “Yup, come over here. Here’s the director right here. All the numbers





and all the emails you need, and whatever.” So that’s how I started, I just started picking out names and numbers, called them.

	D:	Those were the books distributors?



	W:	Those were distributors as well as a Book expo. D:	Okay.

	W:	That’s where we really learned how to be a bookseller. And so I would call them and call the Book expo folks, and they thought I was crazy. They said, “Ma’am, unless you got some money—You need at least $50,000 to open a bookstore.” I said, “No, not really.” They said, “Yes, you do. You need $50,000.” I said, “No, you don’t.” So they hang up on me. I said, “Okay! I got, I got it.” [Laughter] They were all White, I think. So one day I called—just happened to call Random House, because I started calling the publishers, then. I said, “I can get y’all. Y’all are just the agents and the distributors. Let me call the publishers.” So I happened to call Random House, and it was a Brother who answered the phone. Manny Barron. B-A-R-R-O-N. And he told, he said, “Sister.” I said, “I’m glad you called me Sister.” Cause I called him Brother. And he said, “You need some money to open a bookstore.” [Laughter] I said, “Oh man, don’t tell me I need no money, everything about money. I just gotta open up a bookstore.” So he said, “Well, call me back when you get some money.” So I called him back three times. He said, “Are you crazy? What is it? You don’t have any money. Why do you keep making these phone calls?” I said, “Let me ask you a question. What is it that you do?” He said,” I’m the one that goes to all the big bookstores like Barnes ‘n Nobles, and Million.” What’s the name?





	D:	Books-a-Million



	W:	Books-a-Million. “I’m the one who sets the African American books up in those bookstores, African American sections in those bookstores.” I said, “Oh, have you noticed how many African American women purchase those books? And have you noticed how many women, African American women writers, making it happen lately?” He said, “Yeah!” I said, “Well, if I wanted to open up a bookstore as a Black feminist bookstore? Do you think I would have some success if I had some money?” He said, “Oh yeah, no question about it.” I said, “You can’t give a sister a break, you know, in some kind of way you can tell me something to do.” He said, “I don’t have time for this.” [Laughter] I said, “Well, can I call you maybe like next week?” “I can’t stop you, so—.” I gave him a week, I called him back. I said, “Hey Manny, this is Faye.” [Laughter] He said, “Faye, I’ve been thinking about you the whole week and I knew you were gonna call me.” He said, “You know what? This is what you need to do.” He told exactly—He said, “This is what you need to do, ‘cause you ain’t never gonna have no money. I can tell that. So this is what you need to do. Fill out these forms and send ‘em back to you. I can’t guarantee a thing, but just send ‘em—fill out these forms and I’m going see if you’re able to do that.” I said, “Okay.” And I think like two days later, he had the information he needed. And it was maybe another week, he called me. He said, “I wanted to let you know: you’re in the house.” I said, “What house?” “The Random House.” I said, “Random? As in the book house?” “Yeah, you’re in the house.” I said, “oh my God.” I said, “What does that mean.” [Laughter] It sounded crazy. He said, “That means that I just approved for you to get $10,000 credit. On





your books. That means you can pick up your phone. Don’t call me! Don’t call me! I’m gonna give you this number and you order up to $10,000 worth of books.

	D:	On credit? Wow.



	W:	I’m like, “You mean I can order it right now? Like, hang up the phone, I can do it?” Oh man, when he told me that. I ran all the way down U Street. It was like a million dollars. [Laughter] We can get books. Like she was crazy. And then, I said, “Well—“I called him again. I said, “Man, do you think I can order some books from HarperCollins or something?” He said, “Faye, you need to call the HarperCollins. I’m at the Random House. You know, they may send you the same form.” I said, “That’s all I need to know.” And then when HarperCollins answered the phone, I said, “We have a credit with Random House. I was wondering if we can get credit with you.” They said, “Well how much did they give you?” “$10,000.” They said, “Well okay, we can match that.” So I got credit with all of them. [Laughter] You know, I mean we got credit with everybody.

	D:	Wow.



	W:	You know, and it was amazing. So we had a few shelves. And there were plenty of books on our shelves that people started bringing in shelves. They said, “Okay, You need to get these books of the floor. Put ‘em on the shelf.” You know it was a small space, it was like 400 square feet.

	D:	Oh, wow



	W:	That was the bookstore, the original bookstore. And yeah, yeah. They brought the shelves in and wow. So it worked, up to a minute, and then I got so frustrated because it was crowded every day, every day. It was just like overwhelming. You





couldn’t really do much except sell books. And Sisters would just stand there and talk to themselves. So I said, we can’t, we gotta do better than this, y’all. I would take a walk and I would notice this building and it was like three blocks away from us. And through my research, found out who owned it, and next thing you know, we were open. Yeah, we had 2,000 square feet.

	D:	Oh wow



	W:	Went from 400 to 2,000 square feet. So that was Sister Space. D:	Is it still on U Street?

	W:	Yeah, right on U Street. And that way we could show films, and everything. It’s amazing.

	D:	Wow



	W:	Mmhm. So it was good. It was a cultural center. At the time it was Terry McMillan, Toni Morrison, Alice Walker, all the people knew of us. So you know, they would give us awards. So naturally people thought about Sister Space, they would come and buy their books from us. And then the universities tapped in, even Howard. They tapped in, started ordering books from us.

	D:	Oh wow.



	W:	And when they had conferences, they would call us and buy books for the conference. So we made a ton of money. We made a ton of money. We used it the right way. We were able to pay the staff. Six people full-time, and we had four part-time. And when we did the conferences, we had volunteers plus staff. We were able to help people with their tuition, rent. It was, just a great experiment, owning a bookstore. And to just to be around, Nikki Giovanni, we had all the big





ones: Nikki Giovanni, Angela Davis, Toni Morrison Terri McMillan. And you know, they would come in and say, “This is beautiful. How do you do it, how are you making it happen?” The community, you know. Only thing we did was open the door and said, “It belongs to you. And so, what you gonna do?” So we followed the instructions and hoped it would happen. That’s the same thing that I’m hoping for Mama’s Club. Just for it to be open to everybody, you know?

	D:	So could you talk a little bit about this place? Mama’s Club. What you got in mind for it, and what kind of prompted it.

	W:	Yeah



	D:	And the idea behind it.



	W:	Yeah. Living in Gainesville, I know it need to have something. [Laughter] Living back over in Porters, it really emphasized that for me—something Black. Yeah, it’s right across the street from where I grew up. And the guy who owns this, Chris Feely, he lives over in Porters. He’s a White guy.

	D:	Yeah?



	W:	Mmhm. And um, when I moved back, we just became friends. And I told him. I said, “If anybody moves out of any of these buildings, I hope you can put me at the top of the list. I wanna do something on Main Street.” And when I found out that Food Court was leaving, I walked over to his house and I told him I said, “Chris, remember that conversation we had earlier?” He said, “Faye, I already remember.” [Laughter] I said, “Well, I think I need music around me now. Not books. I don’t want to do a bookstore. We already got Wild Iris in the back. So, I don’t want to do that. But what about music?” He said, “Yup, that’s exactly what I





was thinking.” I said, “you want to be my partner?’ “Nope, nope.” You know, I’m giving you a chance to be in building.” I said, “Okay.” So I, you know, I don’t know, I guess it was one night I was just writing up something. I started writing out Mama’s, Mama’s Club, like that. I said, “What does Mama really mean?” It came out music, art, movement, action. That’s Mama’s Club. We can—We love music, that’s us and that’s a beautiful thing. But, and we love art, and we got a little scared of movement. Because I’m talking about the LOCAL movement, the local movements, Civil Rights Movement, Black Power movement, Women’s movement, and, you know, so that’s part of it. And the last is action. So we can jam together, we can do that. But we need to go back to the main reason and do something else. You know, inspire people, go and get ‘em registered to vote.

Take some of the parents up to the School Board and let ‘em be able to stand up and speak.

	D:	Right.



	W:	Go and paint some houses in Porter’s. So that’s what Mama’s Club is all about. So in the evening time, we jam. So I wanted to have like a jazz club, RnB music, punk rock. I just love music. It’s all about the music. And he made a suggestion that we do classical music on Sundays. Because a lot of people will go to Church, but they want to provide some kind of music for their children. He said, “This is what White folks do. Anything that’s classical that’s where they take their children.” I said, “Yeah, I noticed that in D.C. I said, Yeah.” That’s their church.

So if you can set up something in the courtyard in Mama’s Club, you’ll have a crowd. I said, “Okay. Let’s make it happen.” Sure enough. That’s what it about.





‘Cause if you’re ever up early, you stop by and see if we’re gonna have that Sunday morning. If you want to plug into it.

	D:	Okay.



	W:	So, you know, I’m here in the center struggling to keep it open for a minute. My friend Chris. I mean, he’s my friend, but he needs to be paid.

	D:	Right.



	W:	And, just like I told Manny at Random House, I don’t have no money! [Laughter] I ain’t got no money. He said, “Faye, why didn’t you tell me that before you moved in?” I said, “Chris, don’t you remember? Remember we were having some fish and I told I ain’t got no money. Hold on to your plate. It’s coming. It’s coming.” He said, “Okay, Faye. Now enough is enough. Your business is no better.” We had little fundraising days. We only raised like $3,000. He’s charging $1,500. A lot of folks think it’s too much. It’s not. Because most of the business owners here paying $3,000.

	D:	On Main Street, yeah?



	W:	On Main Street. Yeah. Now, Civic Media Center, they’ve been there like twenty years. So, of course they’re gonna pay less. And this guy, that’s his best friend. And he fixed up this place. So he’s paying less. It makes sense. So I got to, I got to get some money. I mean it’s like an emergency right now. So I got to find a way.

	D:	What’s been the biggest challenge, generally shifting when you was doing books? If it was the same as doing music. Has it been the same in terms of funding or has it been other things.





	W:	I think it’s—well, I’ve aged a little bit. I don’t really know the young people who play a lot of music. So I got to sort of get in that little crowd, you know. So I got some young people who go before me and say, “Ms. Faye is gonna call you about punk rock, and you’re supposed to say, ‘Yes,Yes,Yes.’” That’s the way we’ve been having little underground concerts here, you know. [Inaudible 38:14]. So that’s been one challenge just really getting to know the bands in Gainesville. I mean I’’ve only been here like three years, well almost four years now. And we’re not having support from the city. You know, I’m trying to open it up. I got to—did I send it to you?

	D:	The proposal?



	W:	Yeah



	D:	Yeah I just got the email today.



	W:	Okay, yeah. So hopefully, you know. Hopefully that will be approved. I—I’m trying to be hopeful. That was written because Charles Goldstein, you know he’s our city commissioner for district 1, and he stopped me and said, “Did you get the letter about applying for grant money for all these places?” I said, “No!” He said, “You didn’t get anything from the city?” I said, “No, of course not. I live in Porters. What are you talking about?” He said, “Yeah? Okay. I just wanted to check.” ‘Cause they also didn’t send to anybody in the southeast either.” He said, “My friends who live in Northwest, they were getting the letters.” I said, “All right, okay.” So we got it. He said, “This is not gonna happen. You gotta get somebody to help you write a proposal. Let us know, and you got to have it by Tuesday.” Now he told me all this on last Wednesday.





	D:	Okay.



	W:	I said, “Okay Charles. Okay I’m gonna have something by Tuesday.” I found somebody who could really write and so we whipped it out. And I showed up yesterday and he was surprised ‘cause I said here’s your proposal.” He said, “Did you bring the copies?” I said, “Yup.” He walked right over and gave it to the mayor and to Anthony Linnan, our city manager. And that was in the Budget meeting, so they had no excuse that we didn’t apply. And I said, “Tell me I’m not the only African American that applied.” They said, “So far, you’re the only one.” And they said, “You’re asking for 75,000? Well I’m not gonna approve it.” And they better give you $50,000 because what I’m noticing, all the White businesses on Main Street, who already got a ton of money, they’re writing checks to them for 50,000.

	D:	Mm.



	W:	Can you believe that? D:	Yeah.

	W:	That is truly amazing.



	D:	And these are for-profit businesses.



	W:	yes, yes, yes. We’re non-profit. 50,000. Amazing. It’s just amazing. And their guy is really struggling. You know, he’s throwing it backwards from here. And he was friends with Clay Crawford, so he lost the election. So he really doesn’t have any support. So what we gonna do is make a commitment to him so he won’t resign, cause he got another year. So what we trying to do is get the Pastors organized so they’ll be able to send people up to City Commission to at least be





in the audience. [Inaudible 35:05] White racist, commissioners look out and see that we’re paying attention because the next election is in 2018 so you might wanna let, you know, work with Charles Goldstein. [Laughter] In between the 2018 election.

	D:	Right. Okay.



	W:	So, yeah. that’s been a big problem. And also just sort of giving back into the community because Gainesville is seen as a liberal city, but I still see it as conservative, Homophobic, racist, classist, xenophobic. I don’t see the liberal side at all, not yet. I’m praying that I see the liberal side of it, but I have not seen it so far. You know, they against everything, except the trees. They love the trees. That’s a beautiful thing. I love the trees too. And then you know, the homophobia. The fact that, I’m a lesbian. And I’ve always been out. I never planned to go back in. I don’t have a partnership with anybody, and that’s good because I don’t have time right now. I’m just focusing on Mama’s Club. That’s my partner is right here. But the fact that you can’t even have discussions about it.

And they got a whole bunch of in the closet African American lesbians [inaudible 33:30]. And they invite me over to their houses and I’m like, you know the partnership together. And I’m like, “Why are y’all still in the closet?” They say, “Faye, this is Gainesville, I don’t plan to lose my job. Or even if I’m retired, I’m just still in the closet and I’m comfortable with that.” Wow, you know. I’m like, “You’re at the University of Florida. You’re a grown-ass woman. And you still allow them to oppress you? What’s up?”

	D:	Wow.





	W:	I mean, I’m like. “Okay” I don’t do the out thing, I don’t do that. But it makes me really uncomfortable, you know. When you know you’re sitting down in a restaurant with somebody and you don’t want to speak to that person because she knows me. She knows I’m all the way out. She gonna figure it out and I’m like ‘What is that about?” You know? So that is a big problem. ‘Cause people come here and this city is got so many—this city is a good location for gay and lesbian, transgender, bi, queer; Gainesville is the place. But—.

	D:	Especially in Florida.



	W:	That’s right. In Florida. Right, right. It’s progressive in that way. But outside of that, mm! It’s really sad though, and I think about it all the time. You know because I get calls from these sisters and they—it’s like they just wanna bust it loose, but they can’t. You know, they’re like, “I’ve been thinking about what you said to me. But then I think about my pastor.” “Fuck your pastor, man. I don’t care about your pastor.” [Laughter] They say, “Faye, why are you cursing Faye?” “Well, I’m gonna curse about your pastor, if you want me to. Bring him over here to Mama’s Club.” [Laughter] “Is that your concern? You’re crying to because you’re concerned what your pastor’s gonna say about you?”

	D:	Right



	W:	I mean there’s so many other churches. What? This is crazy. But, if they don’t bust us, it’s all men. “You want to go to Key West with us?” “Nah, y’all go ahead. I don’t even want to have a conversation with y’all.” That’s where they go and be together and hold hands down in Key West. Hope nobody see them. Or they go to Jacksonville or they go to Orlando. Or Atlanta. Now I did all that, mmm. That’s





old news for me. You go to D.C. for thirty years, now you’ll see so much. I’m just like, tired of it.

	D:	Well, that’s my next question. What are some of the differences or the similarities maybe that you see before you left and when you came back to Gainesville and Porters.

	W:	Yeah. Well. Like I said it’s the same old same old. In terms of the racism. Not much has changed. Look at who was elected last night for School Board.

	D:	Right. I read the article.



	W:	It’s sad. Sad, sad. So that was a big blow for the African American parents who were there. Because they wanted to see a little progress. If they had elected, not elected, appointed that Brother, Scott Christ. He was the best candidate. Karen Crow was in second. But she’s part of the system. That’s why they elected her. She lives in Gainesville. He lives outside of Gainesville. She has a BA. He had a PhD. In education! Okay. Not to say that, you know, you shouldn’t be elected because you have a BA. ‘Cause I only have a BA, but I can also, you know, well you got a little more education than me, he should be in charge of the School Board. You’re talking about something major. You know? Come on, how can you go—And then they spent $200,000?

	D:	Yeah, on that salary.



	W:	On that—that’s what we know about. That $200,000. And then we gonna look internal and hire the same person. Your cousin. You could have done it in the beginning and we could have saved $200,000. So that’s the same old same old. I guess the progress that I see is just—What is the progress? Really? [Laughter] I





guess it has to do more with the social justice groups being able to work together. That’s the similarity to Washington, DC. That we were able to make things happen because we were able to talk. We may disagree on some issues. But when we put the call out. And I call those men to relocate Old Joe, and they’ve been able to come and say we support you this way. My disappointment has been that I need to see more Black folks show. And that has not been happening. Because the pastors in charge of everything. They’re in charge of their lives, in charge of just everything. So unless the pastors say you can protest against Old Joe. And I said, “So, is that the reason why I don’t see you at any of the School Board meetings? The county Commissioner meetings? The City Hall meetings? Unless the pastors says it’s okay to come up? They say, “Pretty much, yeah.” I said, “So I saw you at the City Hall meeting when they were getting ready to, when they were criticizing Tony Jones. Was that because the pastor told you?” “Yup,yup. He organized the whole congregation.” And she was so happy to tell me. I said, “But he can’t organize the congregation to come up for the School Board meeting?” I said, “What is that about? You White? That’s really something. I mean, what? So, we’re laughing, but it’s sad.

	D:	Yeah, yeah.



	W:	And then you know, every day Monday through Friday, I’m at the bus stop with my children. You know? At 7 o’clock in the morning, I take them. And I take my rubber band, I take my brush, whatever I need on that day. To make sure that the children are feeling okay. And give ‘em a hug. And say okay, we gonna do a poem, Langston Hughes. Somebody step up, just like that. So that’s the progress





that I’m seeing; with my children because when I moved over there we had C and B schools. We got A/B schools now. Because they know about Black History. And I promised them that I would take them to D.C.to go to the African American Museum. I don’t know how I’mma do it. But I’m gonna do it. Some kind of way. I don’t know. I got to find a sponsor. I got to find something. Because my kids. They are my kids. My kids deserve that, they need that. So they can make it to 2018 and ready to roll. So that’s progress. I guess, getting Charles Goston re- elected. We had a Black former mayor. Yvonne Hinson-Rawls. Had no respect for Porters. Brought over. I said, “See all of this is happening, and you’re on City Commission, but you don’t even pay attention to what we’re talking about.” “Oh y’all just complaining about everything.” I said, “What? Woah.” I said,” You did not say that.” “Yeah, and I don’t think that’s important.” I said, “Well, it’s not about you thinking it’s important. The people who live over there think it’s important. So why don’t you just sit down and talk to us.” She said, “Okay.” So she came back again. We had to go three time, tell her the same issues that we were having with GRU. One day we just got pissed off. We said, “You know what Jill? Election is coming up. I think we can get her out of office.” They’re like, “No we can’t do that.” I said, “Guaranteed, we can do it.” I worked with Marion Barry. I know I can do it. [Laughter] We can do it the underground way. Go out and find all the gossip on her and bring it back to me. Go back and find out what she did in the past, what her husband did, what her children did. Bring all the information, we gonna sit down and have a discussion about it. We’re not gonna put it out. We’re not





gonna call the Gainesville Sun. But we’re gonna have another meeting with her and then we’re gonna lay out this—

	D:	Plan?



W:  Yeah. So we did that. We did that. And she was shocked. I mean, she was totally shocked. I said, “Now, We’re tired of telling you. You need to pay attention to us.” “Okay.” About two weeks later, the same thing over and over. So we said, “Okay, now it’s time for her to get out of office.”

	D:	Man.



	W:	And Charles Goston just happened to be the one. She said, “I’m saying I’m running.” I said, “Perfect. Perfect. You’ve got our support. You’ve got my support. And I think the people here in Porters will support you. So, let’s do it.” So, I mean, we had campaigns, the forms, we went to file the form. We said, “You ain’t done a damn thing for Porters.” We said, “You haven’t done a damn thing for Porters!” [Laughter] “And you know what? We’re gonna get rid of you.” And she was like, “Yeah, right.” And everybody was like, “What?” Because, you know, you don’t do that in Gainesville.

	D:	Yeah.



	W:	You know, be loud and wrong. Of course. I said, “Yeah, I’m a little crazy, but she’s gonna lose this election.” So everybody said, “Okay.”

	D:	[Laughter]



	W:	Yeah. She lost the election. D:	Wow.





	W:	And big money. Amity List, all of the head billboards over Northwest. I mean she was doing it. Sister was doing it! Nobody could not believe that she won the election. I said, “I told you.” The people of Porters were just like, “Oh my—.” They were just dazed. They were celebrating. [Laughter] I mean, we did that. We did that. Did we do? We did that. Yup. We did that. They were calling cousins that live on this side, calling cousins in Northwest. We made that happen right there.

	D:	So you’ve been able to see some people change based on people’s perceptions?

	W:	[inaudible 21:29]. Somebody called him, get in his car and come over. You know, sit down and he’ll be over two overs and talk to people. Sit on my porch. Soon as they see his car they come down. That’s the kind of community that’s organizing, and that’s the city commissioner you need there. You know. Now there’s much more he needs to do. But at this point, when you keep in mind he’s new. ‘Cause it’s only been two years and he’s got another year. So, but he’s running, you know. He loves the people. Charles Goston has always loved the people. Same thing. Loves the people. Yeah, that’s how we got our old office. And then, once you see Charles Goston. I said, “You don’t have to turn your head, Sister. We’re still Sisters. What about me?” [Laughter] I’m a little crazy but man, you know. [Laughter] She said, “Oh God, everybody coming to here but me.” I said, “Well it’s open to everybody [inaudible 20:25]. So I’m gonna be on the same committee with you. We might as well learn how to communicate.

	D:	Right?



	W:	You know, I’m in the Women’s Quarters so if you part of it—[Laughter]





	D:	So have you seen, I guess, increased political awareness since you’ve been back?

	W:	Oh yeah, You mean within the Black community? D:	Yeah, the Black community.

	W:	Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, most of it ‘cause of running. You know they had all those candidates who were running to get elected?

	D:	Oh right, right.



	W:	Oh yeah, that was—that was it. I’m quick to fight their laws. And I kept telling them. I said, “Look y’all. This is a beautiful brochure right here. ‘Cause it’s all Black folks on it. And y’all already think that I’m gonna vote for him. Well, I’m not gonna vote for him.” And then they start putting on, “I cannot believe you who’s always preaching about Black history gonna end up voting for a White man.” I said, “No, “I’m voting for two White men.” [Laughter] ‘Cause Hutch and Barry. Forget Pastor Thornton. We had Pastor Thornton and—.

Background: Earnest



	W:	So, uhh, that was Run Creek, that was—Oh man that was great for me. I couldn’t even sleep at night, figuring out how were gonna get around that. But they learned a lot. You know, they learned, because they had to learn about the patent running that was coming in, they had to know about the Chamber of Commerce, because they really didn’t know. You know, but, once they lost, they started saying, “Wow, I didn’t know it was—I didn’t know it was this you adult— Now you know, they trying to get him to run for County commissioner.

	D:	Oh, okay.





	W:	So we said, “Uhh uhhh uhhh.” I might have to get out there and run. Yeah, I’ve seen, that’s progress, the fact that people are learning a little bit more. But it’s sad too, because the church was given much more. You know, they should have political folks come from churches and speak. Number one about—just civics— basic stuff, government. You need to know more about the government. You know, just basic stuff. They don’t even teach civics in school anymore.

	D:	Right



	W:	[inaudible 17:56]. Just basic stuff.



	D:	Well I guess that leads into my next question, then. W:	Mhmm?

	D:	what is it sort of that you hope to see for Porters in the future? W:	For Porters?

	D:	Porters and then I guess wider Gainesville.



	W:	Yeah, for Porters to continue to struggle, you know the struggle especially against the University of Florida and their strategic plan. Because University of Florida’s strategic plan means that they want to buy houses and knock ‘em down and create a parking lot right there. Or either create more dormitories. Because their whole program is that they create more housing for the students. Okay, what about the people who’ve been living over here for a 111 years? What is that about? You know. And our people when they go to the college. When we lay it out, like this is what North Florida wants, and this is what you working on. Now what are we gonna do?

	D:	They know what’s going on.





	W:	They always say, “Well.” That’s why most folks hate the Gators. You know, most African americans living in Gainesville actually hate the Gators. That’s why you see so many notes and shirts and bags. Because, you know, growing up over there, whenever they had football, we knew that you need to be in the house.

Because they would drive by and throw bricks at us and, Pepsi, Coca-Cola, anything, at Black folks. That was their recreation after football. You could not even sit on your porch.

	D:	Wow.



	W:	Yeah, yeah. You know, or attempt to get your woman to come over so they could rape you. You know. I mean that’s what the University of Florida was about.

	D:	Right



	W:	So our struggle is just to—to be able to use what we have. Because it belongs to us. But at the same time, resist them as much as you can. And I think the folks have done a wonderful job. Of resisting, you know. Still there, still there. I mean we’ve got a bunch of White folks who’s moving in on the side of Porters. Not right in, but in the side. When I was growing up, we always wanted to have sidewalks. You know my mom was born there. We didn’t get any sidewalks until, what, two years, or three years. And you see this? And those sidewalks come right from the University of Florida and they go they stop at Main Street. Those sidewalks go all the way up to Waldo Road. And the brochure that they made, it instructed folks.

When you’re leaving the University of Florida, walk on this sidewalk and then make a right turn on 3rd street, and then make a left turn to get the Cade museum on Depot Avenue.





	D:	Oh, so they want you to—[Laughter] W:	Yeah.

	D:	They said, “We don’t own that yet, we don’t own that yet.” [Laughter]



	W:	Exactly. So yeah. Yeah. So that’s what the University of Florida is about. And so they came over, you know had their strategic plan meeting. Over in Porters. And they thought they were slick, you know. I tell you, our people, we were fully aware of what’s going on.

	D:	Right



	W:	So that was day we had, we had homecoming after everybody gave the homecoming for the Gators. So we had our little homecoming over in Porters. So I just happened to drive over at that at that friendship over in Tallahassee. We happened to be getting out of the car, and this sister. Her name is, I can’t remember the first name but—Dixon. She used to be the director of something for the University of Florida. So she came out, she walked past, and she asked, “Why are you lying here?” And then she got her hands. I didn’t say nothing. I stood in the center. So she came and put the flyer right on the table because we had seen the folks. Instead of going around talking to people, she’s just putting it on the table.

	D:	Right.



	W:	[inaudible 13:23]. Then I said, “New Porters strategic plan. Please come to the meeting.” That’s it right? So what she was gonna do was go back and write a report that she notified the people over in Porters. You know that was a community meeting, nobody showed up at the meeting. So therefore we could





move forward. So, okay. I said, “tell you what, we’re going to make our own flyer.” It said the University of Florida is coming over to knock down and get y’all houses. They’re coming over to put y’all out and [inaudible 12:48]. She thought she was gonna have ten people. We had a 125 people in that center.

	D:	Oh God.



	W:	In the Porters Community Center. We had them sit at the right place. You know, because they’re coming with their little charade. And then a Sister said, “What is that paper you got?” She said, “This is a charade. We’re gonna tell y’all how the meeting is gonna happen. And a brother in the back said, “We ain’t doing no charade! We ain’t even interested in no damn charade! We come up here to save our houses!” She said, “Oh no Sir! No! It’s not like that!” I said, “Ma’am, excuse me. He is out of order.” That was my brother. [Laughter] I said, “Excuse him. Let me ask you a question. Do you have a facilitator for this meeting?” “No we didn’t really think we needed a facilitator.” I said, “Well I volunteer. I’ll be the facilitator.” I said, “Ma’am, the way we usually do work we usually do it this way. We don’t use charades so maybe you can fold that back up and put it to the side. And maybe you can just stand there a minute and maybe we can give you like 5-10 minutes.” Because she really thought she was gonna have two hours, and she had her consultants with her. So I said, “Maybe like 10-15 minutes at the most. And then let the people tell you what they want okay?” so we listened to her. She don’t need no ten minutes! She don’t need no 15 minutes, Faye! [inaudible 11:12]. I said, “Let her finish, Now we’re gonna do questions and answers, questions and answers from the back.” “Okay I got the first question.” I





called on one of the lawyers, grew up in Porters. Then another brother, he ran for Property Appraisal, Victor Perkins. Called on his sister, Gladys Perkins. So we had it set up in the right way. Where people really understood what was happening, could break it down to the people. What? After about the twelfth person had spoken, they were like packing and getting up out of there. They were scared. I said, “Well, Ms. Dixon. Do you think we need to continue this conversation?” She said, “I don’t think so. I don’t think so.” I said, “Well okay, well let’s just end it, and good night.” [Laughter] She called me the next day. No two days, she took two days. She called me and said, “Ms. Faye, do you think there’s a possibility that we can have a smaller meeting with a smaller crowd?” I said, “I don’t know. We like to go big over in Porters. We don’t do small over here. But I will go back to the people because I can’t make any decisions for the people. But let me go back to the people and see if they approve of a small meeting.” They said, “Hell no! When she come back over here we’re gonna have more people.

We’re gonna bring our cousins from Sugar Hill and Leesburg and Modesto and they’re not gonna be able to get in!” I said, “Okay, all right all right.” So I said, “I tried. I really tried. I really tried to get them to understand your position but they pretty much crushed me out and told me ‘You better not come back over here!’” So then what she did was go around and—you know we always got some Oreos in the bunch, right? Back then, we used to call them the Oreos. They used to call me Oreo because I was the only one who would really be friends with White folks so they always called me Oreo. So I said the Oreos they went and chose the Oreos, and I said, “Okay, now what they want to do is have those folks get the





president’s house. The University of Florida president. He’s gonna feed us some lunch. You know?” I said, “If y’all don’t take my name off this list. Take me name off this list. I don’t want my people to think that I’m Oreo.” Man, they had at least twenty people on there. I said, “You did not have my approval to put my name on there.” So I don’t know what happened at that meeting, because I didn’t go. So yeah, it’s serious. I mean this is prime property, you know? Prime property. And the University of Florida sending out letters asking people to sell their houses for

$60,000. I said, “Y’all let’s look at this. What I’m gonna do is call a property appraiser. Somebody we don’t even know, and let him come to the meeting and sit down and talk to us. And then you make your decision about whether or not you want to sell your house. I mean some of y’all might want to sell your house. I don’t know. I mean, that’s up to you.” They said, “You know, every house in Porters including those little gray houses?”

	D:	Mmhm.



	W:	“Each one of those houses worth $175,000.” I said, “What $175,000?” He said, “$175,000. That’s prime property!” He explained that to everybody and everybody was like, “We’re almost rich!” [Laughter] I said, “Have you ever taken a loan out? You know.” I haven’t taken no loan. No finance, no.” “And you’ve been paying all this money and you have not used your house to build it up, and anything break, they call their cousins or somebody to come over and fix it.

That’s how it works. I’m like wow, this is crazy! Financial literacy, none of that. It’s Black people. It’s Black people. So anyway, you got me excited.





	D:	No, that’s good. I want to thank you. I don’t know if there’s any last comments or remarks or anything you want to give.

	W:	I don’t know. I think Mama’s Club is really gonna have a major impact on this city.



You know and that’s with or without the city’s money. Which is really taxpayers’ money, but they act like it’s theirs. The City Commissioner acts like it’s theirs. But I think we’re gonna have an amazing impact. Because people coming from all over. You see how the [inaudible] come here? And they’re so comfortable. They feel comfortable. You got the kitchen near, so we can fish fry, chicken fry, whatever. We got the homeless folks here, they come over. You know, we got a couple of them getting houses soon. They trust us [inaudible]. They start talking about Malcolm X. So I see that kind of impact. We’ve made progress just not enough support from the city. They could do better than. And I’m praying that Lauren Poe will follow through on his promises to us. Because I did support him and I met up with him a couple times. And I’m gonna see what he’s really about. He’s a very church-fearing man. It’s not known to other people. He’s all about the church.

Background: Hi!



	W:	Hello? Can I help you?



	Background: Is this the Civic Media Center? W:	Pardon me?

Background: Is this the Civic Media Center?



	W:	Next door. So, we’ll see. You know, I—I’m not into religion. The institution but I try to be respectful. So I kind of back off on that level. My brother was a pastor





and that’s when I was trying to be all revolutionary. “Oh a pastor, look at you! All because of Kenya’s movement!” He’s all about his children. I said, “You know. I’m about all the world’s children. You know? What about my children over in Porters? You’ve been over there. You came to one of our meetings. So we’ll see. And yesterday, when I dropped this off. Lauren poe was there and he said, “I haven’t forgotten.” I said,” Okay.” We’ll see. I said, “Always say prove it.” So that’s it. Well I wanted to say thank you.

	D:	No, thank you. Thank you.



	W:	For hanging in here with me. It’s taken three years but we finally made it.



D:  It’s been good. I might have more questions about that. African Socialists’ Party and other.

W:  Oh yes. What I’m trying to do now is let everything come out. Part of me moving back to Gainesville and I’m in therapy now so I can talk about a lot of things you know a lot of bad things happened to me over in Porters. You know, I was raped over there.

	D:	Wow.



	W:	Right where I lived. Right across the street. So I had a lot—and it’s like “Why did you move back over there?” I had to come back and confront it because I was running away from it. Now I can stand up and say it. This happened to me. So, and I want to tell you more about Depot; I want to tell you more about Sister Space. We had two conferences, we taped everything. VHS. There was one sister who worked for Howard. She said, “We gotta stop doing that VHS stuff. We gotta start doing digital.” So she used to tape for the surgeons so she came and





did a lot of things. But all this information, all these books, same books. And I’m trying to figure out what’s going to happen to them. If I die today, I’m not sure that my family would really understand the importance of it and really hold on to them and put them in the right place. And so my struggle right now is that whether or not I want to make the donation to Samantha’s Library or to keep everything. You know, because Flo wants it in Porters. You know, since I grew up here, since I learned. Then there’s GW because I graduated from there there’s a lot up in D.C. And then all this stuff is in my house. That’s why I don’t have company because I don’t want nobody touching my stuff! [Laughter] Meet me at Mama’s Club! So yeah, it’s a lot. That’s why I was asking Paul about doing the. Because I want to get trained. You know there’s check over in Porters. They need to—the one on the corner, she’s 109 years old. Mmhm. Sharp memory. You’d never forget her. Everyday she gets up, pick up the paper, the bottles, the cans. Everyday. She says, “That’s my exercise.” Mmhm. Yeah. So, so many people over there in Porters who you could really get in touch with about history.

	D:	Well, let me stop this recorder. But I want to say thank you, formally. [End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Sandra Romero, December 6, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 28, 2019