AAHP 242; Bradley; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 242 Claretha Bradley African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Allen Kent on January 15, 2012 19 minutes | 12 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Claretha Bradley talks about growing up in Lake City and going to college in Jacksonville, where she became a nurse. During her career, she worked with AIDS patients and, later, the elderly in hospice.



Keywords: [African American History; Columbia County, Florida; Duval County, Florida]

































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 242

Interviewee: Claretha Bradley Interviewer: Allen Kent

Date: January 15, 2012



	K:	All right so, my name’s Allen Kent, as I mentioned. It’s January 15th, and we’re speaking with Claretha Bradley. Miss Bradley, I just get you to tell me where and when you were born and your parents’ names.

	B:	I was born August the 25th 1949. My daddy was Wilbert and Ethel Bradley; lived in Florida. My daddy was 108 when he died.

	K:	Oh wow!



	B:	My momma was 75, and my brother was 39 when he died.



	K:	Your father was 108 years old when he died? Oh my goodness.



B:  It’s 13 head—It was—It’s 13 head of us. And we used to be… we used to work in the countries and pick corn, cotton and all that stuff.

K:  What year was he born? Do you remember? B:  He was born 1919. I think that’s when it was. K:  1919?

B:  Yeah. He was 108. He died, stayed to his self, go to church, 13 grand—it was 13 sisters and brothers, 13 of us.

K:   Wow. That’s a big family. What did your father do for a living?



	B:	Well he used to do like plant pine trees, used to dip tar and all that stuff that. Cut wood and stuff like that. He did that’til he retired and stuff. He got sick and so he didn’t have time anymore. And my mom, she used to work to the laundry, and they ironed clothes and stuff like that. At least one of us had to get our own afternoon job so we could help out because it was a poor family. We was real poor and didn’t even have—my mom had a lot of kids and stuff.





	K:	Thirteen’s a lot.



	B:	Uh-huh.



	K:	So are both of your parents from Florida as well? Born in Florida? B:	My momma from Baldwin, and my daddy from here in Lake City. K:	Okay. So you spent most of your life—all of your life here?

	B:	Yeah, I stayed here until twenty years. I was, you know, I left and came back because I went to school in Jacksonville, and I worked there at the University of Florida over there. And I left there and went to Shands Hospital, and I worked for St. Vincent. I worked twenty-two years at General Lake when I got out of school in Lake City—in Alachua.

	K:	Where did you go to school?



	B:	I went to Florida College of Medicine in Jacksonville. K:	Okay, so what did you do when you graduated?

	B:	I was a nurse RN.



	K:	So what was it like growing up in this general area?



	B:	Oh it was really nice. I didn’t have no problem ‘cause I mostly growed up in the country but we moved to the city then and we never had no problem. It was a real nice area, really nice.

	K:	What do you remember about your childhood?



	B:	That was so long. [Laughter] I knew I had to work hard. My mom, she always worked so we just kept the house. Each one of us had a day to cook. We lived out there in the country, so we lived kinda far. We had a bus driver come by and





help us, the man, he was quite. He always used to go to New York driving and would bring us some clothes, nice clothes and all that.

K:   Do you remember what you used to do for fun?



B:  We played softball, go hunting with my daddy and that’s all. K:  What’d you hunt?

B:   Rabbits, deer, and all that stuff. We’d have a night to go with Dad, stay the night in the country. Had a mule and a wagon, didn’t have no car. We had a mule and a wagon.

K:   Did you like hunting?



	B:	No, I didn’t like it then. I liked the fish and the rest of [Inaudible 04:20]. And my uncle was an Indian, he was a real Indian. My aunt—my daddy’s sister had married him and he was an Indian. He used to take us to different places and stuff like that. He’d name all 13 head of us, he named the whole family, he’d name all my sisters and brothers. My aunt Sue, I got an aunt she’s 98 years old. I had an aunt, she was 100 when she died but my aunt in Gainesville she is 98.

	K:	You said your father was an Indian? B:	Yeah.

	K:	Full-blooded Indian? B:	No, my uncle was.

	K:	Your uncle.



	B:	Uh-huh.



	K:	Do you know what tribe?





	B:	No, I can’t remember but he was full-blooded Indian because he was married to my daddy’s sister.

	K:	So where did you say that you went to school?



	B:	I went to school at Richardson High School then I went to—I started out first here at Kane Weapon High School that’s way out in the country years ago. Then went to J. Elementary, then to Richardson High School. Then I went to Florida College of Medicine. Worked at General Electric for 22 years. My life—I’m retired now and I’m happy. [Laughter] Very happy.

	K:	I’m sure that’s nice.



	B:	Bought my house when I was 17 years old. Got my own home, got my own



contract. Very pleased.



	K:	Are you married?



	B:	Don’t wanna be married, it just put you out. [Laughter]



	K:	That sounds like you know what you want, you know what you like. That’s good.



	B:	Started saving up my money, got my own place. Paid for the land; 15 years old bought land. Then I got 17, 18. At 17 I started helding my house a bit. Got a 3 bedroom house, very happy. Did it all by myself, just paid for it; I was 39 years old and I paid for it. It made me a very happy lady.

	K:	Where did you get that independent spirit from?



	B:	My mom and my dad, they always taught us. This was straight out of mom, she taught us how to work, how to cook. We didn’t—she ain’t never had to whip us or tell us she gonna beat us. She always say, “I’m gonna beat you,” but we never got beat ‘cause we never did nothing bad. We’ve always been good people.





Thirteen head of us. My brother next to me, he’s 39. He died; was on dialysis. My daddy died of old age, he was 108. My momma, she died of an aneurism. She was 75 years old. My aunt Silvie was 100 when she dies, she had a heat stroke.

	K:	What about school? Did you like school?



	B:	I loved the school. I loved it when I got into fourth grade. [Laughter] K:	Tell me about your time at Richardson.

	B:	I had a good time. When I was at school I’d like to play softball. On the class I liked when I had my reading class. I didn’t like math and I didn’t like science. I liked to go to typing. I took typing three times a day, so I really liked it in my college. I enjoyed college a lot. Plus, it was different things that you had to do, I really loved college. I appreciated college. I applied to College of Medicine in Jacksonville.

	K:	What’d you like so much about college that was different from high school?



	B:	Everything was different. You’d get to do different things every day. You go to the hospital, go work in different places. I really enjoyed it .You don’t do the same thing every day, you get to go do different things over there in Jacksonville. Had a hospital to go to, you get to work in that lab, you get to go do x-rays. That’s what I liked. I really liked that.

	K:	So, you seem like you really enjoyed the work that you did.



	B:	Oh I did. I kept elder people—I worked with elder people. I worked with a community hospice that is in Jacksonville, but like for AIDS patients I worked with them 7 years. I took care of AIDS patients, then I worked with elderly people





about going to their home and doing for them at their house; like throwing books, seeing that they safe and stuff like that. That’s what I really enjoy. I was like a traveling nurse going back and forth in a town.

	K:	I found it interesting that you said you didn’t like math and science in school but you ended up doing something in the medical field. [Laughter]

	B:	Had to, [Laughter] had to do when I was in college. I really enjoyed college. That’s the most thing I really liked. The only thing I was—I am disabled now because I had to have back surgery. That’s what stop me from working, so if I wasn’t disabled I wouldn’t even be here today. I would be in Jacksonville because I really enjoyed working with my patients, they good people to work with. Go keep the homes in work and stuff, they always wanted me, the same person every day. Because I knew how to treat them.

	K:	So what brought you back here after you were done working?



	B:	I owned a home here and I have a nephew; he stayed in there for 15 years. So must’ve gotten with the wrong people and then… they put him in prison. So, I had to come back to stay at the house because if I didn’t, somebody would’ve broken in and tore it all up ‘cause they was fin’to start doing that. That’s what brought me back to Lake City.

	K:	Now, is this the church that you attend? B:	Nah-huh.

	K:	Where do you go to church?



	B:	I go to church at Days for Old Days Springs. I was at [Inaudible 11:37] in Jacksonville so when I moved back here, I moved my membership. But, I’m





thinking about moving back to Jacksonville because I liked the church. ‘Cause I had been going over there 20 years at the church in Jacksonville.

	K:	So you go back and forth from here to Jacksonville on Sunday’s for church?



	B:	No, I go to a little church. I go to a different church [Inaudible 12:00] to make up my mind if I move.

	K:	What did you think about the service tonight?



	B:	It was really nice, it was nice. I loved it, I loved it. It was real good, I’ve known him a long time. His momma used to teach for the school; his momma and daddy.

He’s great; I loved it. He gave a great sermon, I really enjoyed it.



	K:	I did too, it was very good.



	B:	I remember his momma, his sisters, and everything. It’s good people. His momma taught me first grade, and his daddy taught me.

	K:	His mom taught you first grade you said? B:	Uh-huh.

	K:	What did his dad teach?



	B:	He taught me in fifth grade. I think his dad teach English, he was there teaching English in the fifth grade.

	K:	So what’s different about living in Lake City and living in Jacksonville?



	B:	There’s a lot of things you can do in Jacksonville, you can’t do nothing here in Lake City, shoot. I’m gonna tell you the truth, I really love Jacksonville.

Jacksonville is not that big. It’s for you being with who you hang out with. I stayed over twenty years, I never got in trouble. All I did was go there, there is a lot of things that you can do in Jacksonville, you can’t do nothing here. You go to





church and go back home. [Laughter] I love Jacksonville and since I’ve been back in Jacksonville—I’ve been here for 2 years and I ain’t saying I’m staying longer more. It ain’t the same.

K:   I appreciate your honesty.



	B:	And I’m telling you the truth. And I’m telling you one thing here, these men won’t do any [Inaudible 14:12], I don’t play that! I got to take care of myself, I love pretty stuff but hey I’m not paying no $100 dollars for no man with no shoes on. So it’s just me and God in my house, thank you God for being there, you’re gonna be there.

	K:	Like I said, it sounds like you got it figured out. [Laughter] You know what you like, you know what you want. Yes ma’am.

	B:	Yes, yes I got it figured out, uh-huh. Until you got high time better go get your own things, ‘cause hey, I bought my own and I worked when I was 15 years old. Hey, you can do the same thing I did. If you some kin to me, come stay with me; but another man come to lay, no I don’t play that. You see, I bought my house when I was 15 years old. I bought my land for—I couldn’t tell my momma until I was 16. I said, “mom, I’m getting a house.” She said, “you can’t get no house.” I said, “yes I can.” I said, “the FIB next month to start on the house, I’ma tell ‘em if he pass by.” The man said, “well she gave me the money and done paying for the lot and everything.” They put my house up and I was 16 years old when I got my house. When they built it. When I moved in it, I had to finish school and stuff like that. I had my own place, nobody to help me pay for it, it was mine and I turned 39 it’s mine. They told me it was mine.





	K:	What kind of work did you do to make the money?



	B:	I was working at General Electric. I was working Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays from 11 until 7 o’clock ‘cause I was underage and I told them I wasn’t 18; he said, “I’m just gonna work you on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, eleven to seven.” He said, when you turn 18, I’ll hire you full time. I stayed there 20 years. But there ain’t nothing in Lake City.

	K:	So from when you were born until now, what’s been your favorite age up until this point?

	B:	Age?



	K:	Your favorite time period in your life.



	B:	Well, I used to go out and party and have a good time. [Laughter] My favorite time period was when I got so drunk, I got so drunk I went in the back door at this place and I said—that’s how much I drank—I woke up and I said, “Lord if you get me straight now, don’t you worry about me taking [Inaudible 17:00].” [Laughter] I was so drunk I thought I went in the back door when I went in the front door.

That’s the favorite time of my life. I tell everybody that story.



	K:	How old were you?



	B:	Oh I was about 22 or 23. Done cut off all my help. My mom said, she told me when I finished school, we finished school—me and my sister, she had two of us that come by the school the same year. But she had just had the first kids, two boys that do the same things and two girls, me and my baby sister and me came in the same year [19]69. When she told me that, I ran ahead, all my hair, like a boy. Oh I was right there. I learned my lesson, I came to my senses when I





thought my nephew was staying with me, he used to say “I’m coming and spending the night.” I used to keep him as a little baby. My brother would always come and get him, howling and crying. He’d say “I’m bringing this boy back,” at 3o’clock in the night time; “this boy won’t stay with me, he wants to stay with y’all.” It was a tantrum like he really did. I used to go out to there, drank, throw away my money; unh-uh. He changed my life. It was a whole different story from that guy. He used to really work and take care of him and [Inaudible 18:36].. [Laughter]

	K:	Is there anything else that you’d like to talk about? B:	Not really.

	K:	Nothing in particular? B:	Unh-huh.

	K:	Okay.



	B:	I enjoyed talking to you.



	K:	I enjoyed talking to you as well. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:  Anna Jimenez, January 22, 2016. Audit-edited by: Juanita Duque, January 30, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019