AAHP 047; Mayberry; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 047 Willie Mayberry African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview conducted by Julie Desmarais on June 11, 2009 45 minutes | 19 pages



Abstract: Reverend Willie Mayberry grew up in Jonesville, Florida. He relates a multigenerational family history rooted in the Gainesville area that stretches back before Emancipation. He also describes what it was like to grow up under Jim Crow segregation, including the marked inferiority of segregated public facilities. He also describes his education, and some of the teachers who mentored him in his youth. And he describes his career as a pastor, particularly in terms of the service and community engagement through which he distinguished himself in Alachua County. Rev. Mayberry also relates some thoughts on his work with the NAACP.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County; Religion; Segregation]

















































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 047

Interviewee: Willie Mayberry Interviewer: Julie Desmarais Date: June 11, 2009



	D:	Hi, this is Julie Desmarais from the Samuel Proctor Oral History Department at UF. I’m sitting here with Reverend Willie Mayberry. Rev. Mayberry is a pastor at Pleasant Hill Missionary Baptist Church at 429 NW Fourth St. in Gainesville, Florida. Rev. Mayberry has been active in the community and civic life for many years. He’s on the board of One Church, One Child of Florida. He’s also a member of the State Board of Missions. Rev. Mayberry is a sought-after speaker and an expert on African American history in Gainesville. He’s also been a keynote speaker at local commemorations for Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. How are you doing today?

	M:	Fine.



	D:	Okay. Were you born here in Gainesville, Rev. Mayberry?



	M:	Yes, I was born in Porters Quarters, which is right in Gainesville. D:	How far is that from here, about?

	M:	From the church, it’s probably maybe about five blocks from here. D:	Okay. And what year were you born in, Reverend?

	M:	I was born in [19]51.



	D:	[19]51. And that would make you about how old?



	M:	Ah, well I don’t really know exactly! [Laughter] But, fifty-eight.



	D:	Okay. How many children were in your family while you were growing up?



	M:	I came from a family of twenty siblings, but I was adopted, and in that particular family, it was five of us.







	D:	Okay. And how were you with your family? Can you describe to me a little bit about your childhood growing up?

	M:	Yes. Well, I was adopted. And my mother is my biological mother’ first cousin. Raised myself and two other siblings, and they had two children themselves. I grew up in a place called Jonesville. A farm area right outside of Gainesville going due west. It was a very poor family, but there was love there. I came from a very poor family, my daddy, adopted daddy, had a second-grade education; he worked at the mines making about sixteen dollars a week. My mother worked as a maid, and of course her salary was probably about twelve dollars a week. But we made it on whatever we could make it with.

	D:	That’s good.



	M:	Mmhm.



	D:	You said you had five siblings growing up? M:	Yes, yes.

	D:	Okay.



	M:	In that particular adopted family home. D:	And you were the—

	M:	I was the baby. Three—two of them was my biological. I had a brother and a sister, they were biological brothers and sisters. My adopted mother took three of the siblings at that time, and adopted us. And then, my mother had a boy and a girl. My adopted mother had a boy, and daddy had a boy and a girl there at the house. So it’s five all together.

	D:	Wow. Do you know anything about your grandparents or—?







	M:	Oh, yes. Oh, yes.



	D:	Can you tell me something about your grandparents, or your relatives?



	M:	Okay. I can go back to my great-great grandmother. My mother’s mother and daddy, they were Miles: Alan Miles and Diana Miles. My granddaddy died before I was born, and of course my grandmother died—I vaguely remember her death—she died when I was about four years of age. Her name was Diana Miles, and we called her Tiny Miles. They, were the ones that had—they also had twenty children. And all from—she had twenty all from one man, my grandfather. And they lived on a farm and worked very hard. My great-grandmother, who was my grandmother’s mother, Peggy Camps, she was a Henry before she became a Camps, married a Camps…James Camps. She died the [19]80’s, she was one hundred and six at her death. I was very close to her. I would sit down and talk with her, and she would share. She could go back to—she was not a slave but her daddy and momma was a slave, and she would share slave stories to me at that time. Yeah.

	D:	Do you want to elaborate on the slave stories? Or do you want to—?



	M:	Oh yes! I can remember. My great grandmother said that her daddy says that when the Yankees would come down, and the master would come—they were coming down, the Union army was coming down fighting the Confederate army. And that the masters, they were very afraid, because the Union army would come in and destroy their property and their land, and take things from them, et cetera. Burn their homes and all like that. And that they were very afraid, and they felt that the Negro, the slave, was so close to God, they would ask them to







pray for them. And to pray against the Union army. And said that the Negro slaves that they would all be praying, “Oh Lord, bless Master! That Union army, we don’t like the Union army, what they doing?” Blah blah blah. And say when old Master would leave, they would laugh, because they were just doing it because that’s what the master wanted them to say. [Laughter] And she would say, you know, different stories about how my great granddaddy said how it was tough. There were times when they would beaten, and there were times when the women were raped, and whatever. They would have babies from the master, and those kinds of things. And basically, that’s vaguely what I can remember.

	D:	And your grandparents were also from Gainesville?



	M:	Yes, they all were right here. Right here from this area. D:	So, you go a long way back in Gainesville?

	M:	Oh, yeah. Yeah. All my family was right here in this area.



	D:	Do you remember as a child growing up if you’ve ever had to deal with racism or segregation?

	M:	Oh yes! By all means. By all means. I could not understand why, when I was coming up as a child: there was a White gentlemen and his wife, their grand- daughter would come into the area where we lived. They lived further down on a farm, and they had horses. And this girl would be riding the horse. And of course, when she came by, she would wave at us and we would wave at her. And, we were scolded for doing that. We were told we couldn’t wave at White girls and White women. And I could not understand that, being a child, why I couldn’t wave at this girl because she was—we all were, you know, children. And I didn’t







understand at that particular time, but I understood later on in the years that it was detrimental. That they came through an area where Blacks were being killed, or beaten, or lynched, for doing those kind of things. And at that time, you’re talking about probably, this was in late [19]50’s early [19]60’s. That kind of attitude still existed. Coming up as a child, I had to work in the fields. I worked in the fields for the Whites. And of course, it was a custom, you know, it was just the normal. I mean, when you got in the car, you rode in the back seat of a car. I always rode in the back seat. And especially if there was a female, you rode in the back seat. If there was a truck, you rode in the back, not in beside. I think one of the things that really got me during the segregation period of time—and there was many others, many experiences, but there was a few that I can remember.

Being called a nigger. I worked on the farm with Whites, and I was the only Black, basically. A lot of the time, I was the only Black there working, and the boys that was there with me working, which was Caucasian, and they would ask me, “Willie, how would you feel, would you be upset somebody called you a nigger? How would you feel about that? Are you a nigger?” Next thing I remember, working in—I would rake yards. Spend all day raking yards, and then when lunch time came—and of course, the people that I was working for, they would provide lunch. But they would bring the lunch, and I would have to eat the lunch outdoors. I could not go in the house. I would eat the lunch outdoors. And this particular day—there were many times I would be eating lunch, and I could see in the window; when I was eating my lunch, all the family would eat their lunch. And the cat would be walking on the table, eating in the house, and that







bothered me as a teenager. Here I was a human being, and I could not. And I’m outside eating, whether it was cold, rainy, or whatever. You could not, you were not, I was not allowed to come inside. Coming downtown in Gainesville, country people, we would—children, we would probably come into town maybe twice a year. When we did came into town, they would have the bathrooms at the courthouse, the old courthouse. And the bathrooms for Negroes was down in the basement on the ground area. And they had area designated for “Colored.” You had your Colored water fountain, and your Colored bathroom. Well, the bathroom, the Colored bathrooms were very awful. The stench was just unbelievable. Well, that’s what we had to use. That sort of, you know, bothered me. Coming up as a child, going to school, I rode the bus. But our buses were so old and raggedy. If it was cold, cold wintertime, the bus probably wouldn’t make it. And of course, we would get the buses that were handed down. We would get the books that were handed down. Our books came to the school, they was torn, worn to the extreme. You know, it was really, really, really, really tough. Yeah.

	D:	So your schools weren’t integrated at the time you went to school?



	M:	No! No, no, no! I went to school in Newberry: Newberry Elementary. And that school, it was named Newberry Elementary, but it went from first grade to eighth grade. And it was a segregated school. When you look at desegregating the school, desegregation and whatever, Reverend Wright’ daughter and son, children, and Joel Buchanan, they came in and they did the initial integrating of the schools. But then, there were those of us who came behind them about three years. That story never get told, about those that came in behind. Oh, we







suffered greatly as well! We came in also. They were about getting to the point of making desegregation mandatory, but then we came in also, later on, because they were asking students from the different high schools—segregated high schools—if they would go over to the Caucasian schools, and sort of prove that we could survive, that we could do the work academically. And of course, some of us volunteered, and said, “Yeah, we’ll do it. We’ll go over.” Because at that time, when the few went over there, it was just only, what? Four or five. But then it was a all-out county push to get a group of us to go over. Not only to hit GHS, or the one—I think it was GHS or maybe one other school, but to do it county- wide. And of course, some of us did that. I came over to Gainesville High School. And it was tough. Because we went through a lot of insults. It was, you know, White teachers and administrators couldn’t say “Negro.” Well, the word was not Afro-American, or Black, it was Negro, and many of them could not pronounce Negro. They would call them “Nigras.” [Laughter] And of course, in the classroom with the students, it was very difficult. They—

	D:	And you were one of how many, do you remember?



	M:		Well, when I got to Gainesville High School, it was probably, maybe, it could have been about forty or fifty, maybe thirty-five or forty was there at GHS. But it was very difficult. And we had to do—you know, seventy-five, or eighty, or ninety wasn’t good enough for us. We had to go beyond the call of duty. And we stuck together, we worked together. We encouraged each other, because we had to go the extra.

	D:	Right. That’s impressive.







	M:	Yeah.



	D:	Do you recall any prominent people during your childhood that influenced you as a child growing up?

	M:	Oh, yes. Yes, yes, yes. Afro-American, or Caucasian? D:	Either one, just anybody that—

	M:		Okay, yes. I had a number. I had several educators from the—well I’ll start from the religious arena. There was my pastor at that time, coming up as a child, Rev.

W. A. Miles, who was the pastor of our church. Rev. L.A. Tillman who was moderator of all the Baptist churches of the area. These men were strong, good preachers, strong men. They influenced me greatly. When I look at the educational rim, of course, teachers always affect you, they influence you for a lifetime. I had a principal. My first grade teacher, my second grade teacher. My first grade teacher, I just loved her to death. Which, and then, she was an elderly lady, Mrs. Lang. I repeated first grade, unfortunately. [Laughter] But Mrs. Sally Mae Martin, became known as Mrs. Dukes, she influenced me—in fact, when she got married, I got mad as I don’t know what! When she had a baby, I got mad. I imagine one of those childhood crushes. Isaac Caffey was my principal. Virgil Welch was my principal. They influenced me so greatly, until both of them—I really worked to be just like them. I had a set of keys like Virgil Welch, styled my hair like Virgil Welsh and Isaac Caffey, combing it back. My pastor, Rev. T.A. Wright, influenced me greatly coming up. Those are the people that are Afro-. Now, there were Caucasian. There was a gentleman—a lot of people don’t understand this, but I’ve always—coming from the rural, I’ve always been from







the country, I know how to deal with rednecks. I worked with the CETA program, and I was the only one that would go and work as a CETA worker with the country people, because nobody wanted to work with them because they couldn’t deal with them. But I always got along fine with them. There was a Caucasian lived in Jonesville that I worked for named Johnny Canard. He did not have a racist bone about him. When I got ready to work for him in the tobacco field, we got ready to eat, I did like I’d been doing all the other times with the White workers. When time to eat dinner, I would go out under the tree. And he caught me and said, “Where you going?” “I’m going to—” “No. You sit right here at the table with everybody else.” And he has influenced my life, even to this day. He’s dead now; his wife still lives in Jonesville. But he was a man—back then in the late, in the early [19]60’s, he stood, he was that kind of person. He didn’t have a racist bone about him, and he really influenced me greatly, yeah.

	D:	You spoke a lot about your pastors growing up. Is that what influenced you to become a pastor yourself?

	M:	Well, it helped. Of course, in the Afro-American church, we believe that preaching is a call. You get a divine call. But those guys influenced me. They didn’t influence in my calling, but they did influence me after I received my calling to be the best that I could be in the calling. Reverend Thomas A. Wright, Rev.

T.A. Wright, is a very dignified statesman. He’s a very dignified preacher, a student of the word, and a great administrator. And I try to emulate that as much as possible. Yeah.

	D:	Now, you are the founder of Pleasant Hill?







	M:	Yes.



	D:	Can you tell me a little bit about how you started?



	M:	Mmhm, yes. I started this church twenty-two years ago. I wanted to have a church that was non-traditional. I didn’t want a traditional church. I was fed up with the bureaucracy of denominations, and all the rules and regulations of this order and that order. And I wanted to do a non-traditional church that was not racist, that were very inclusive. That wanted to reach out to those people that folks didn’t want at their churches. The society rejects, people that were economically deprived. I felt that those people was overlooked, those people need to be ministered to. And this was, where we are now, was a drug-infested area, and I felt like there was a need for a church. It was drug-infested, prostitution was at its highest, AIDS was at its highest, homelessness was at its highest, and so we came down here and we worked with the people. We shut down the prostitution houses, drug houses, and got the area cleaned up. And cleaned up so, until, now the students can walk without any fear. Students moved in this area, and I see Caucasian young ladies walking down, up and down the street, twelve and one o’clock in the morning. When I came down here, you could not do that.

	D:	Wow.



	M:	Yeah, mmhm.



	D:	Is this the first place you’ve been a pastor at?



	M:	Oh, no. I’ve been pastoring, I started my pastorage in—this is my seventh church. I started my pastoring in I think [19]72.







	D:	And was it all in Gainesville?



	M:	No, no. I’ve pastored three church in Gainesville. I pastored in Gainesville, I pastored in Bradford county, I’ve pastored in Marion County, Putnam Country. So, I’ve been around. [Laughter]

	D:	I’ve been reading a lot about Jim Crow. The church was a haven for, you know, people in that time. Do you think that the church today serves the same purpose it did forty to fifty years ago?

	M:	We’re not—I see the church as changed compared to where it was forty, fifty years ago. It seem as if we’re competing with each other. And I don’t think it’s the membership as a whole, but I think it’s the competition lies within the leadership of the church, and that we have our selfish agenda. It’s you know, whose capacity—the biggest megachurch, who can be the most popular, influential pastor in town. And I think we’ve sort of lost that touch. Whatever we do now is for our selfish agenda to make us look good. Whereas years and years, years ago, it was not like that. Because no one was going to come down and interview and put you on television, or put you in the newspaper, and all that kind of stuff. So whatever you did, it was basically done from the heart. But nowadays, I see that there’s a selfish agenda. The church, as far as I’m seeing it, has not done an adequate job in the responsibility that it is supposed to be, and that is to equip the membership to go out and to deal with the ills of society. And to bring people to the saving power of the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes.

	D:	I also understand you’ve been active in the community and civil life for several years. Do you want to explain a little bit more about that as well, or—?







	M:	Well, yes, I’ve been very active. I don’t maneuver as much as I used to because I’m getting older now. [Laughter] I see myself as an equipper, equipping others, because when I just go out and be the activist, and do it all, then all the emphasis and all the show and the royalty is on W.G. Mayberry. So, my attitude has changed now. The pastor is an equipper: he equips. He empowers his people to go out and be advocates, and to fight for the rights of the people that are trodden down that can’t fight for themselves. But I’ve been involved with the NAACP, the ministerial lines for years. I’ve been involved with the rights of others when their rights have been neglected. I’ve been heavily involved in the Black on Black crime task force, trying to eliminate poverty, crime in the area. There were times—when I first came here, there was times when my life had been threatened. They had hit men out on me, and they threatened to kill me if I didn’t stop doing what I was doing. And of course, I’m like King, and I’m like Jesus Christ: if my life isn’t worth dying, it’s not worth living. And so, that did not stop me. Where there was need for the betterment of humankind, I was interested in that arena. I also would stand firm and stand tall in for the rights of folks who were being neglected and overlooked, and being abused because of the fact of their educational status or financial status. You know, because of their age, or color, whatever. My work in the community has not only just been for Blacks, but I’ve done a whole lot for all races. You know, I’ve had workshops, employment, feeding the hungry, doing drug counseling, working with the elderly. I just feel that my service is not only for—when there is a problem, problems don’t come as







Black problems, or brown problems. They just come as problems. [Laughter] Yeah.

	D:	That’s true. That brings me to my next question. You’re a board member for One Church, One Child.

	M:	Yes.



	D:	You want to explain to me a little bit about what that is, and what you do there?



	M:	Yes. Father Clemens, who is Catholic priest, wanted to adopt, and the system would not allow him to adopt because he was a male. And so, he ended up getting national attention from that. And, Father Clemens from that moved with the program One Church, One Child. He was asking if every church adopt at least one child, we can get some of these babies off the waiting list. And our specific target goal was Afro-American. Of course, we moved to try to get any child that needs to be adopted, but we find that Afro-American children are on the waiting list, and they’re not getting adopted. And so, it is an adoption non-profit organization all over the United States of America. And Florida leads as one of the most prominent One Church, One Child adoption faith-based programs. It’s a governor-appointed position. You’re appointed by the governor, and so I’ve been on that position I don’t know how long now, but I was asked to serve, and I’ve been on that board ever since then, trying to get churches to adopt. Foster care is good, but we want children to go in a permanent home.

	D:	And how long have you been working with One Church, One Child? M:	I would say now about ten years.







	D:	Ten years. And your work that you were telling me about earlier with the NAACP, that was how long ago?

	M:	When I first started pastoring in the area, I was working very heavily with the NAACP. And as a member, working active, and I was representing the religious arena during that particular time.

	D:	So, the religious arena kind of opened you up to One Church, One Child and all?



	M:	Well, no. What it would do is, my job at that time was to keep the churches informed with the issues, and what was going on, to try to get the pastors involved with the NAACP, with issues that we had to deal with.

	D:	Do you think that your membership with One Church, One Child has some basis on the fact that you yourself were adopted?

	M:	Of course. That’s one of the reasons I’m very sensitive when it comes to adoption. Because of the fact that I was adopted, and it was very difficult for me to get adopted, and so therefore, I understand the plight. I understand the situation. And so, that’s one of the reasons why I felt that it was my obligation—it was my duty to serve on that board of One Church, One Child, yes.

	D:	You also have spoken at commemorations for Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. You want to describe that for me?

	M:	Yes. Martin Luther King was a man that I highly respected. I remember the time when he was murdered. Of course, we all wept and cried all over the world. It was a very, very sad day. And of course, I’ve had opportunities to speak on, you know, during those festivities. And I wrote something a while back, and it says that we don’t want to label Martin Luther King just as a dreamer. I think I wrote a







paper one time, and had it put in the paper, that he was more than just a dreamer. A dreamer just dream, but don’t do nothing with their dream. Martin Luther King was a dream-doer. He had his dream, and he did something about the dream. And it was an honor to be able to stand, to represent the clergy, to represent what Martin Luther King stood for. And for me to have come through what I’ve—you know, my time dealing with segregation, it was an honor to be able to stand and speak during the commemoration ceremony.

	D:	I can imagine!



	M:	Yeah.



	D:	If King were alive today, what do you think his thoughts would be on the progress of African Americans?

	M:	Well, I don’t think that he would be as pleased as we would think he would be. I think that in terms issues that we need to address, in terms of our health care, the number of deaths in AIDS, premature death with infant deaths. I don’t think he would be very well pleased with what’s going in the educational arena. You know, we need to see more Afro-American, especially males, graduating, less going to prisons, and et cetera. The crime and things like that. I think he would still be doing what he was doing before, standing up, speaking out against those kind of issues. And that we must understand that racism, segregation, has not died. It is still alive, just as much as it has ever been. My thing is that we just have a high tolerance. We can tolerate certain things, but when you push, when you squeeze, and squeeze, and squeeze, the Bible say what’s in you going to come out. And that there’s still a lot of injustices that we have in the world today.







	D:	That was going to be my next question, but you just answered it. I also wanted to know what your thoughts are on young African American youth today, and problems they have, they don’t have. Problems with, like you said, racism that still exists today?

	M:	The loss of respect. I think that in the Afro-American community, a lot of Anglo ways and mannerisms and concepts has drowned the mentality of most of our youth. I think there’s nothing wrong, I’m not a—well, I don’t think I’m a racist—but I feel that you don’t have to deny your race to be like the predominant culture that’s operating in society. You don’t let them say that this is the way. My culture is just as important. And I’m disappointed with the fact that in the Afro-American community, with our youth, we’ve lost the respect for our elders. It bothers me, and then of course, when I was coming up, there was like night and day in the predominate culture of Anglo- compared to our culture. You would not, we call it “sassy”: you would not disrespect your parents in our culture. You’d get your butt torn up, you know? That was something you didn’t do. You respect your elders. It didn’t have to be your parents, because if you got out of line, the neighbor down the street would get ahold to you, and when you got home you get another getting-hold to. I see, when I go in the stores, I see teenagers, young adults using profanity in the midst of elderly women on walking canes and walkers, and it doesn’t bother them. They use it around me; it doesn’t bother them. They have no respect. It bothers me when I see—when I go to the stor,e and I’m driving in my car, I don’t expect to see young men’ underwears. I think, you pull your pants up on your waist. I don’t like the fact of hanging out, doing nothing, being on the







street, being idle. I believe strongly what God said, man must work according to the sweat of his brow, and I have those strong beliefs in terms of what the Afro- American Black man ought to be: he’s a warrior. He comes from Africa, he’s a warrior. He’s supposed to stand, he’s tough, and he’s a provider, he’s a hunter! And in hunting, the youth needs to hunt pride. Go back, seek it and find it.

Integrity, being responsible. I’m disappointed with the educational opportunities. They are not being taken advantage of like they should. Yeah.

	D:	Just a few more questions. You’re a busy man. You’ve done so much, do you consider yourself a mentor to the youth today?

	M:	[Laughter] I don’t know. I really don’t know. I’ve never sat and considered that.



I’m told that children be at home mimicking me. [Laughter] You know, whatever. I don’t know. I see so many that I’ve dealt from the religious arena, and from the secular. I’ve had students that I’ve worked with in school—high school, elementary school. Those who, when I worked with the CETA program, “Mr.

Mayberry, you gave me my first job. You helped me.” “Mr. Mayberry, I was a student of yours.” Blah blah blah, “you did this for me.” I’m hoping that there’s some that I’ve made some impression on.

	D:	My last question: do you see any future changes for Gainesville, or do you see anyone following in your footsteps?

	M:	Oh, I’m expecting these young pastors are going to do mightier and greater things than I’ve done. I’ve not done all that I could’ve done. I’m not satisfied with all that I should have done, but these young men are coming out, they are more educated, have the resources. When I came along, Black preachers didn’t have







much education. You didn’t have—if you had high school, that was good. We worked. We were bi-vocational: we worked, and we just preached on the weekends. And when I was pastoring, I was making like fifty dollars a month. And getting twelve dollars and fifty cent a week. But nowadays, I strongly feel that these young mens will do more. They have the time, wherein I had to work and then come and deal with issues. Wherein, many of them, they are not bi- vocational. Their churches are financially able to support them where they can be to the meetings—County Commission meetings, City Commission meetings, go to different places, wherein I had to do it in the evenings and whenever I could do it.

	D:	And do you think that Barack Obama being elected—what are your thoughts on that, and the future for America?

	M:	Well, I didn’t think that I would ever see a Black man becoming president of the United States. I didn’t think I would live to see it. And of course, my great-great grandmother, the one I was telling you about, Peggy Camps, the old Negroes used to have these words: “the bottom race one day will come to the top.” When we were in elementary school, we didn’t know we were segregated. I mean, that didn’t even come into our mentality. We didn’t know we were poor; that wasn’t even there until we were told that. We’re very proud that Barack Obama being Black, he made history for us. He is super intelligent. I don’t agree with everything that he says or that he does, but I am proud of the fact the we do have an Afro-American president, who was not elected just for Blacks, but he was elected for the world. And I think he’s going to do a fantastic job.







	D:	Me too. Is there anything you’d like to add?



	M:	No. I think I’ve ran my mouth enough! [Laughter] D:	[Laughter] Thank you for your time.

	M:	Don’t start me to talking; I’ll go from here until tomorrow!



	D:	All right. Well I appreciate your time, and hopefully I’ll come back and see you soon. Thank you.

	M:	Thank you.





	Transcribed by:	probably Julie Desmarais, date unknown Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 17, 2017

	Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019