AAHP 681; Morris; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 681 Henry Minor 7-6-2019 Interviewed by Paul Ortiz on July 6, 2019 49 minutes | 27 pages



Abstract: Henry Minor recalls growing up in Pensacola, Florida in the late-1920s. He describes being drafted into military service upon his high school graduation in 1942. After eighteen months in the navy in Guadalcanal, he returned home and was preparing for a second period overseas when World War II ended, allowing him to end his service. He explains how his mother taught him to play piano, hoping he would play in a church one day. These skills eventually turned into his long-held musical career, prompted when two members of the Black community in Pensacola hired him to play in their new night club. Minor found that the earnings from his musical gigs were much greater than other jobs available to him at the time. Eventually, he auditioned other musicians and put together his own band, Chick Minor and the Blue Notes. Under different band names and with different bandmembers, Minor played around clubs in the Southeast for around forty years. His advice to young musicians is to learn to play the music people want to year, rather than simply what the musicians themselves want to play. He explains, “You got to listen and play.”





Keywords: [African American history; Pensacola; World War II; navy; blues; jazz]



AAHP 681

Interviewee: Henry Minor Interviewer: Paul Ortiz Date: July 6, 2019



O:  Well, we’re here today. It’s July sixth. We’re at the Chappie James Museum. I’m with Mr. Henry Minor. My name is Paul Ortiz. First of all, Mr. Minor, thank you so much for agreeing to share a part of your life story with us.

M:   You’re welcome.



	O:	Thank you. Mr. Minor, I wondered if we could start, if you could tell me where you were born and something about what life was like when you were growing up?

	M:	I was born in Pensacola, Florida. 1924. And life was pretty good for me. My family was able to have a pretty good living and jobs and whatever. My father, he always had a job, and I was raised up over there in [inaudible 00:00:53], where [inaudible 00:00:55] is today, over by the Texon. ‘Cause I was born there. We moved, I think, over there when I was about six years old. And we had nothing to ride, and the bossman gave my daddy a car. Told him if he fixed it up, he could have it. That was the first car we ever had. T-Model Ford, 1924, I guess. So he fixed the T-Model up, and we had a car. And so eventually we moved back to Pensacola—over in the city, I call it. I went to school. My mother transported me to go to school. To [inaudible 00:01:40] School. And that’s one of the schools I went to. From there I went to old Washington High School on West Jackson Street. And I think, at the time, we had a professor named Professor Long, but I got there just in time to see Professor McDaniels was his charge. And then, I think it was around about the [19]40s or something, they built the newest high







school [inaudible 00:02:13]. That’s where I graduated from in 1942 at age seventeen. I was drafted the next year.

	O:	Wow.



	M:	[19]43. Went into the Navy, and I didn’t spend any time—I went straight overseas from there, after I had a short leave, and spent eighteen months there. Came back to the states, and I was about to go back overseas, but the war ended in 1945.

	O:	Now, when you were deployed overseas, Mr. Minor, where did you go overseas?



	M:	I went to Solomon, they call it [inaudible 00:03:02], just above Guadalcanal. So I only had one base.

	O:	Okay.



	M:	During that time, you only spent eighteen months overseas, and then they’d bring you back to the states. But they’d send you right back, too. But eventually the war ended while I was back in the states.

	O:	Wow.



	M:	That’s how I was able to get out.



	O:	What outfit were you with, Mr. Minor? What outfit or unit? M:	I was in the U.S Navy.

	O:	Oh, okay. And where did you do your basic training?







	M:	Great Lake, Illinois. I think I had about three months of training, I believe. I think it was in April, May, June, July. And from there came a short leave. Then they go back there, Great Lakes. They ship me out to California. I think [inaudible 00:04:08]. I think that’s his name. And south side of San Francisco, and from there overseas.

	O:	What was your occupation in the military? Your MLS.



	M:	Well, you know, you didn’t have a special occupation other than you pick one when you got there. And so the only thing I could do, being a school driver at my school, was a driver. I was the driving sanitation guy. They didn’t have anything. The only thing you could do at that time was take exams to go to school, but during that time they sent me back to the states. And then I stayed in the states after the war was over,1945. I just came out. [19]46.

	O:	What was your experience like, Mr. Minor, like in the military? How did life change for you as you moved away from Pensacola into the military?

	M:	Well, I had never been away from home, one thing. It was kind of weird to me. I really didn’t want to be in the service, but you had to go. So I made the best of it I could. But I was out as fast as I could. And from that time on when I came out of school, I went to work for the US Navy in Pensacola as a chauffeur. That was about the best job you could get in those days.

	O:	Where did you first get your inspiration to go into becoming a musician?



	M:	I really wasn’t intending to be a musician. It just so happened I be working at the Naval Air Station at the time being, and two fellas here had a car business. One







guy, he was a policeman, and the other guy, he was a manager [inaudible 00:06:17]. And they were trying to make money in the Black community. So they built a brand new club on the eastside of town called the Esquire Club. It was nice and exclusive. You had to be dressed to go in.

	O:	Wow.



	M:	And the guy came by my house one day, and he says, “I heard you can play piano.” I said, “Only for myself.” I wasn’t a professional. I didn’t go to music school or nothing like that. He said, “Well, I need a musician tonight,” and “Will you go play there?” I said, “I don’t know anything about music you play with [inaudible 00:07:04]. I don’t know any songs.” Because if you’re gonna play, you’ve got to have more than one song. He said, “Well, look.” Said, “I’ve been going all over town. I can’t find anyone.” He says, “Well you go up and go through the motions.” Said, “That’s the only way Imma get paid.” He really convinced me to go. I went.

	O:	To play piano?



	M:	Yeah. I had a couple songs I knew and that he knew. So I played that. He said, “You did really good.”

	O:	Do you remember what the songs were? M:	I think one of ‘em was “Stardust.”

	O:	Wow.



	M:	It was old-time “Stardust.”







	O:	Old time.



	M:	And he said, “You did pretty good still with the ones you did know.” And then, him being a musician in a band, he said, “I’ll teach you.” I said, “Okay.” So in the meantime we had rehearsals, and that’s how I got my learning in and started playing music. My mother knew music. And that’s how I learned to bang around on a piano. But she didn’t want me to be in no band. She wanted me to be in religious music. But that money was looking good, ‘cause I got paid more money playing those three nights for him than I was making in the Naval Air Station.

	O:	Really?



	M:	Oh, sure. They knew how to make money, ‘cause they had gambling going on in the back room. And they could play that for you. You had the Black Tie Club. And they’d wear a tie and coats to come in the club. So anyway, we started to have a band. We had a good relationship, and we started playing. I was beginning to learn the music. Play the tunes, and between that and what I’d do for myself, I began making some money between two jobs. I had— keeping one with my family. Then I got married.

	O:	What year did you get married? M:	Before I went to the service.

	O:	Before you went to the service, okay.



	M:	Yeah, you hear about getting married, and you hear about, during that time, that money coming to them.







	O:	Right.



	M:	Well, I wasn’t thinking about that, though. But I eventually got married, ‘fore I went in.

	O:	What kind of music, Mr. Minor, if you don’t mind me asking— M:	Yeah.

	O:	—as you were growing up, what was your favorite style of music? It sounds like your mom wanted you to play religious music, but what were your favorite musicians or styles of music?

	M:	I invented my own style. I don’t know what you call it. I had a different way of playing music than a lot of people have even now. I like to mix my chords up. I’d play, but I didn’t—wasn’t too interested in the book too much. Well, in that time, this band I played with first, they played a little bit with a little country. They played a little country, back in the day, because we played more for White clubs after we left the other club. So we was kinda just moving around, and we were on the road with them. Overnight, come back home. So I had to be at my other job.

	O:	But you would play for White audiences sometimes?



	M:	Yeah, that’s where the money was. So anyway, as years passed by, the band broke up and everything, and I played with different bands here in Pensacola. I played with High Orlando, I played with Raised Ship maybe a couple of months. Doing time, just doing shows in there. I played with Hail Andrews, Carl Davis. I played with usually different bands around Pensacola. So eventually, at [







inaudible 00:11:29], he had a straight on circuit, too. Mostly White high school kids. Graduation, proms, stuff like that. And eventually, I left Pensacola. I went to Colorado. And I played in Colorado with different bands. And they liked to play styles even my other band wasn’t ready for. Keyboard band. Eventually, I said to ‘em, “My father and mother, they’ve both taken sick.” So I wasn’t there long. I was there until 1958. From [19]55—I moved back to Pensacola. And I didn’t have a job, so I went and said, “I’m gonna get my own band.” Maybe take care of myself and my family. So I got a name. I went to a lady to print me up some black cards. I got me a name called, “Blue Notes.”

	O:	That was the name of your band?



	M:	The Blue Notes, yeah. [inaudible 00:12:39] and the Blue Notes. You had to go out and put the signs out. Then I began to play some for the guys, and I fooled around and got me a—whatcha call it? The guys that go out and get bands jobs for ‘em. I forgot what they call ‘em.

	O:	Like an agent?



	M:	Agent yes.



	O:	Oh, okay.



	M:	I had my agent. My first job was in Biloxi, Mississippi. [inaudible 00:13:03], but he had three jobs for me that weekend. So he made up the money between those three jobs. So I kept him until I learned the ropes. I mean, there’s bands that cut the third man out.







	O:	Wow, that’s a good idea. With your band, Mr. Minor, what kinds of styles of music did you play, and where did you—you mentioned Biloxi—So what kind of styles of music did you play, and then, and where did you play?

	M:	Well, I played according to the crowd, and where I’m playing; the clubs up there. My style is that I like to ad lib to a lot of things, different sounds. Where you take a song, and you might play it straight through the way it’s written, I would improvise something to it. But anyway I don’t know, I like all of it. I like all of the music, though. We played jazz. But I learned from the first guy we played with, we had to play some of everything. You had to play jazz—not really jazz, because, you know, you can’t dance off of jazz, but you had your ballads, songs of blues, regular things people played.

	O:	Right. So would you play a song like, say “My Funny Valentine”? M:	Yeah, yeah.

	O:	Okay. What style would you play that song in? ‘Cause that’s–



	M:	Well, I would play it maybe like the guy going to sing it—‘cause I didn’t sing. I’d sometimes sing, sometimes not. But it’d come when he’d sing. If he sang it when we—And then again, he might sing it same way and I’d put something else in it and it’d still come out the same way. Like I said, I improvised a lot.

	O:	And it would depend on the audience where you went. You’d really get a sense of who the audience was?







	M:	What they’d like. Yeah, because you could go sometimes when you’d go to the club and if you don’t know the club, you’d go there and you’d feel the crowd by playing different type of song and different type of music, and once you find out what they liked, you’d try to stick around, of course, to it. And then you’d get away for some time and come back.

	O:	What was the business end of that like, and was it hard to be a Black bandleader during that period of time of segregation? Did you face challenges? Like I remember reading, like Charlie Parker, for instance, in Kansas, when he took his band through there, and the cops would be angry at Black musicians, and Charlie Parker, he may have been beaten one time. Did you have challenges like that?

	M:	Not really. I never had any challenges from anybody, because, like I said, I played at the Naval Air Stations. I played at the bases around Pensacola. I played at the places not far, maybe a hundred and some miles, twenty-five miles, hundred and twenty-five miles from here. Like Brewton, Alabama, Panama City. I played the bases at Everland Field. I kept the circuit going. There was actually a lot of money to be on the bases.

	O:	Okay, the military bases. M:	Military bases, yeah.

	O:	Who would be in the audience? Who would be a lot of the audience members? M:	On the bases?







	O:	Yes, sir.



	M:	Only military people. O:	Military.

	M:	‘Cause during that time, they had the buses usually come from town and pick up the ladies and take ‘em down there, and the fellas could come off the base.

Some of ‘em wouldn’t even come to town, because they got a band there coming on the base. And then, they’d take the women down there to have a good time with ‘em and they’d bring ‘em back to Pensacola. But the other places, I played at, golf clubs, and then you had a variety of people there. Not only golfers and their wives. Military wives would be there and military golfers, too.

	O:	Did you ever have a chance to play, like in Jacksonville?



	M:	Yeah, I went to Jacksonville. I lived here and went to Jacksonville in [19]61.



When I played, I finally got a job at the club till I got known, and then I played for different clubs in Jacksonville. Then I started out—I forgot the name of the club right over there. I can’t think of it right off hand, but I played in different clubs down there.

	O:	Did your musical styles, Mr. Minor—‘cause you’re talking about a period of time from the early [19]50s and now we’re kinda working into the early [19]60s—did you see changes in the music business during that time? You talk a lot about improvisation. Were you starting to improvise with new types of music during that time?







	M:	Not a new type for me. For them. It might have been a new type for them, too, because I played the way I felt. I tried to make him feel the same way, or whoever’s singing. Especially whoever was singing. And they’d sing the song. Then I had got him—stylistically Grover Washington, but that’s not his name. Grover something else. He was a saxophone player. He was a good Pensacola boy. And he was a schoolteacher too, of music. He started a band, and we worked together. Something about changed notes, different type of notes for him. And he’d follow right in line with it. I didn’t try to change too much. I stuck to the pattern.

	O:	Right, right. What are your all time favorite songs to play for people, and why are they your favorites?

	M:	I just love music. Anything, all of my favorite ones I’ve learned are what it is. I’m a ballad man, really, for me. I like ballads, slow songs—love songs, we used to call it a long time ago. But I learned how to play the jazz and other stuff. Blues and stuff like that. I’d play it. And it gets good to me sometimes, ‘cause it’s up underneath myself. Not to be someone else’s guy playing[20:38].

	O:	Now with your bands, as you put them together, how did you recruit musicians into your band? What were you looking for?

	M:	I was looking for a musician that didn’t try to emphasize himself. Sometimes you get a drummer, and he’s too loud. He wants to be seen, I guess, is what you call it. He wanted to be had and heard. So he’s too loud for me. It’s bad on the eardrums, too. I think I got a bad eardrum now. And you can’t slow him down.







That’s the thing. You play something, the whole band can’t be heard. ‘Cause you see you can’t get ya groove. ‘Cause I had problems with drummers. They loud or whatever. I said, “Look, man, when I’m playing the solo, soften up.” And of course, he’s right by me, and so he wasn’t. I had to fire one of these guys, and I almost quit behind it. But I wanted the whole band to be heard. There was a couple of times there were solos slowing it down— o he could be heard, he almost blowed the roof off the house. But you’re just in the groove.

	O:	In the groove.



	M:	Yeah, you get in your groove. You just play what you’re supposed to play, nothing gets the groove about it.

	O:	Would you try out musicians? Like would they have to go through a trial period before they could really be fully fledged members of the band?

	M:	I didn’t have to do that because I had learned of the musician before I hired him. Over here, I’ve heard him before. I liked the way he played. And only thing to do was just if I liked the way he played after hearing him. And he might have been in another band for a job. If I liked him, I’d hire him. I already knew what he could do. He had the style and the way he played.

	O:	Looking back on your career so far, is there a favorite time period, when you think back, to be a bandleader and musician? Was there kinda like a golden era that you remember or that you maybe had the most fun? A time?

	M:	I enjoy music. I have a lot of fun. And the bands I’m in, we always had a lot of fun together, and we was kinda on the same wave. There wasn’t some guy you







could only get him to play one key and the other guy—I didn’t ever hire any person like that. Probably couldn’t read music in the first place, like I didn’t for a long time. But because of other bands—they taught music—I learned how to read, too. Then we’d decide to improvise. Some guys just came in. They’d pick up a horn and can blow it better than some of these guys that can read music. You just had to tell ‘em. But you really need a guy that can read music, because you’re sitting with other bands that’s reading, and you can’t read, you gonna go opposite ways.

	O:	In addition to your band, Mr. Minor, I’m thinking about—because I don’t know too much about Pensacola, ‘cause I lived down in Gainesville—what were some of the other bands that in the [19]50s and [19]60s were really good bands here?

	M:	You mean nationally or locally? O:	It could be locally.

	M:	Well, my God, I don’t know.



	O:	Or even nationally, from your perspective.



	M:	I loved music by Count Basie. Duke Ellington was a wild dude, man. He got a big personality. You can understand it.

	O:	Really?



	M:	Yeah, he produced some wild stuff, man. He’d be hitting notes up there. You don’t know what he’s doing.

	O:	Did you ever see him play?







	M:	Not live. Not Duke Ellington. I’ve seen Count Basie. Count Basie came here one time when I was in high school. He came, but he went to the naval houses and he played for them first. That’s why he was down here. He said, “Why don’t you play for”—I was a young boy then. I was in school myself. And that’s when he stayed on and played for the Black community. Back in the old days, if it got kind of rough, he wouldn’t come back no more. And then Louis Armstrong. He came here a couple of times. But they all played in the Naval Air Stations for the Officers’ Club. I said, “I tell you what.” I’m trying to pay the guy there while I’m talking. He played for Mahalia Jackson. She joined his band long time ago. A lot of stuff I’ve forgotten. But anyway, he came and played, and I sat him in when I was in high school.

	O:	Oh, wow, played with Mahalia Jackson.



	M:	Yeah, Mahalia Jackson. She was a gospel singer. O:	Right.

	M:	But she went on tour with this band, and I can’t think of his name right now. A lot of people won’t let you sit in, and I can understand that. You don’t want ‘em messing with arrangements and everything. He don’t know you and you don’t know him. And you’ve got some arrangements. The other ones’ll just through somebody out there. “You’ve got to play what I’ve got written down here.”

	O:	Right. Now, would you let people sit in on your band?







M:  Oh, yeah, if I—knew of what he played and how he played, not just because he say he can play. If you did, he wouldn’t be able to play one song, if I’d let him sit in. I’d let him come sit on my organ. I’m a piano player.

O:   Right.



	M:	I might have said that. But if I found out what he played was you not a piano player. You didn’t get back up there anymore. But the band can.

	O:	Right. What were the main musicians that you had in your band, in terms of the instruments? You played piano. You mentioned you had a saxophonist always?

	M:	Not all the time, no. I started with four pieces. So that meant I had a drummer, a bass player—

	O:	Stand up bass? Okay.



	M:	When I first started out, ‘cause they didn’t have these Fender basses over there.



They were very popular. A horn player—either that or a trumpet or a sax. Keyboard. But I found I really tried to keep about five or six, if I could. But sometimes you gotta—four or five good musicians, you don’t have to have no more than that.

	O:	You mentioned that the Fender, and also, I saw an interview recently with Herbie Hancock who talked about transitioning from classical keyboard to electronic.

How did that era impact you as a bandleader, as you start getting more electronic instruments like synthesizers, Fenders?







	M:	[Laughter]Boy that was a mess. Well, you know that’s the thing. You got to read the manual. You got to learn the keyboard and what it stands for, what it’s got on it. And they could have a thousand things. You’ll never play ‘em all. But you pick your one that you like to play best, and you stick with it and try to get professional with that particular one. I do. I get about four or five different sounds, and I’m through. I’m not gonna try these other styles. It’s too much finger work and your memory. You got to memorize this stuff, but you haven’t got time to go to the book and find out what it’s done, ‘cause you’ve got numbers to remember on the keyboards.

	O:	Right.



	M:	Yeah. I like ‘em all. I’ve played about four or five different types of keyboards, and I like that Rhodes, the Fender Rhodes. I played another. I played about three. Yamaha. I played the Yamaha. And sometimes you’d mix ‘em up playing, ‘cause some of ‘em don’t give you the same sound. You like the sound out of one, that means that’s your second piano.

	O:	But was the Fender Rhodes the first keyboard that you played after the acoustic?



Was the Fender Rhodes the first electronic?



	M:	No. The Fender Rhodes I had was [inaudible 00:31:08]. Somebody stole the thing from me before I got the chance to learn too much about it. So I didn’t get another one of those. And it was heavy. That kinda weighed a ton. So I got to the other types—to the light ones.







	O:	Okay. Did that change your style of playing, or did that allow you to play different types of songs?

	M:	Like I said, you’ve got to play around with that thing until you find something you like or sound more like a piano or keyboard. Some keyboards—I haven’t learned how to play ‘em all yet. And I’ve got two at home. I got two of Rhodes, and one sound like an organ sound. ‘Cause I like the organ. I used to have just a organ right here. I had one. But then it got where with my age, you got to carry it around, and boy, the weight on it was something else.

	O:	It’s heavy.



	M:	Then I played right there with the keyboard sound was giving this organ sound, too. But you have about seven, eight different type of organ style on your keyboard. And you got to know the numbers to change the different sounds on the organ. You can have a hammer organ. You can have anything you wanted. But I just stick with one or two. You’ve got vibes and all this stuff on it. And strings, and piano. The piano got about four or five different sounds of piano, sounds of organs, vibes. Shoot. It was a miss. Some of ‘em got their own drum sets in ‘em built in. But you still have to set the style you wanna play. I saw a man beat me. I was gonna get this job over at a hotel, I think, but they had hired a guy. I don’t know what that thing was. It might have been a vox box. He said to me, “What do you want tempo?” And he played nothing but the guitar. Sounded like a big band. And I didn’t get no job either.

	O:	Wow.







	M:	I didn’t get the job. They got one man that sound like a band, and they’d pay him what they pay if he had four or five pieces.

	O:	Right. But if you listen, I’ve heard musicians like that do—they’ll have electronic drums on a machine, and if you listen carefully, it just isn’t the same thing.

	M:	No, it’s not the same thing, but call it when you’re playing it and people can hear it but they go, “What’s the difference?” They’re drinking, everything sound good to ‘em.

	O:	Yeah, that’s a good point.



	M:	If you just give ‘em the title of it. If they just know the name of it, it sounds good to ‘em.

	O:	Yeah. Well, I remember reading about one time, you were talking about the styles of playing, and I’m trying to remember who I heard this from talking about drumming. Oh, it was one of the drummers who played for Miles Davis.

	M:	Miles Davis.



	O:	And he was talking about how in a band, if you have four or five musicians, you have to kinda—and you said earlier—you have to kinda carry each other.

	M:	Yeah.



	O:	Right? You have to build this kind of trust to have a really good band, right?



	M:	Yeah, after being together so long, you can feel each other what you’re gonna do, anyway. And then you can ad lib to it or whatever. Once you get close knit.







	O:	Right.



	M:	It’s not like one going when you going a different way. The answer is you playing the same song. But it sound like it be calling like you was close knit. And you can almost feel what he’s gonna do next. That’s after you’ve been together a while, though.

	O:	Right.



	M:	Sometimes these bands, they’re busted ‘fore they get started because you just go musician to musician. I don’t play with ‘em. And some of ‘em go for changing bands. Musicians going to play with so-and-so. “I wanna play with Dizzy. I wanna play with so-and-so.” Then he be working his way up. Dizzy might not want him. Dizzy know how to pick ‘em, too. Yeah, Dizzy tried ‘em all out. And he’d already heard you before he picked you up on the street. He’d already heard you and know you could play. Yeah, we got chick bands, too.

	O:	Did he come down here, too, to play?



	M:	I never knowed him to come to Pensacola. I might’ve been out of town. Like I said, I left here, went to Colorado. I came back home. It’s been a while. And then I went to Jacksonville.

	O:	Right.



	M:	Around September I came back. Some of the bands around here that I knew by then had come on and left, and some of ‘em had died.







	O:	Right. Now, I heard you were saying something when we were out there. You were saying you didn’t like the term “chitlin circuit.” The “chitlin circuit.”

	M:	Oh, really?



	O:	That term? Or did Teniade may have misunderstood?



	M:	I never knowed anything about the “chitlin circuit.” They called me at [inaudible 00:37:12] the “chitlin circuit.” I don’t know where they got that name from.

Because they just give it a name, I think. Or some other place, I think. ‘Cause we never. We always called it the Blots.

	O:	The Blots?



	M:	Yeah.



	O:	Okay. And what does that mean? M:	Hmm?

	O:	The Blots.



	M:	That’s where they hang out.. O:	Okay.

	M:	‘Cause the Blots, we just had to hang out. Anybody. O:	Okay.

	M:	They had pool rooms and all that stuff down there. O:	Right.







	M:	And nightclubs. All right there together. And then, once you scattered out of town, never got to play during that time. I remember when I was younger, bout the age of two or three on the East side of town, and two or three on the West side of town, and right there on the corner [inaudible 00:38:08], there’s an old time club called Dreamland. That’s where they usually had a big band from out of town come in here.

	O:	That was in Pensacola? M:	Yeah.

	O:	Oh, okay.



	M:	But I was too small to go to ‘em. I couldn’t go to ‘em. I was a youngster. They wouldn’t allow us in there. But when I got grown, they was gone.

	O:	The Dreamland.



	M:	Mmhm.



	O:	And how long, Mr. Minor, so you talked about that your band name, it was Chick Minor and the Blue Notes.

	M:	During that time.



	O:	So, how long was that band active?



	M:	We was active a good while. First of all, since [19]58 up until about—let me see, I retired in 2000. So, honestly about five years before that, probably. 1995, somewhere along there.







	O:	Wow, almost forty years.



	M:	Yeah. ‘Cause what happened was the name changed to [inaudible 00:39:23].



Then my drummer, he was beginning to get a few jobs. He called Pensacola jazz quartet. So, I let him go. He was the guy that was playing in my eardrum. I needed ear pads.

	O:	[Laughter] He played so loud.



	M:	And so I figured, I tried to get him to come down. I had retired from the Navy yard, my job, in [19]86, [19]89, and I remember just playing music on after I retired. And then I just couldn’t stand it anymore. I said, “Well, I know what to do.” So in 2000, I retired from music, period. I just played for myself. I’d go home, get me a groove, and I’d just do what I wanted to do with everything.

	O:	Nice. How did you book a gig? You mentioned earlier, you had an agent, originally, but then you figured out how to do your own bookings, right?

	M:	Yeah, yeah. I had to figure out how to get rid of the band [00:40:32], ‘cause I had to pay him, too, for getting the job. I don’t know what I’m going to make. I just take what he give us.

	O:	Right.



	M:	But he gave us a pretty nice salary, during that time. I don’t know how much money he wanted, ‘cause he never took my percentage of it. I probably couldn’t have figured it anyway.

	O:	Yeah.







	M:	But anyway, I said, “Why should I pay him?” I learned how to get the jobs. I said, “Well, I can do that.” And I’d take off on a weekend. I’d go out and work on my job. Worked five days a week. I’d take Saturday off, but I started in Pensacola and go to another town in Alabama and find out where the joints are. I called ‘em “Joints”. Clubs. Either if I got that job a couple of hours at one joint talked to the man. If I don’t get that job, I go on to somewhere else in Alabama. Maybe Andalusia and Miccosukee. Come back down through Cricks view—this is in Florida—right on down to Milton. Either going down to Phoenix Springs according to how much time of daylight I had. Come back to [inaudible 00:41:51], then come home. Imma get me a job, though, riding around. You’d be surprised, and then sometimes I’d get two jobs. Maybe if I can’t do it on the same day, I don’t need the same day.

	O:	Yeah.



	M:	Yeah. And so I just learned to get out there and to go do it myself. I had my own price set, and during that time, I had my own contracts. That’s what I did. I had me some contracts drawn up. And I was a union man, too. So I had contracts with the union.

	O:	Oh, yeah, I was going to ask you about that. And that was the musician’s union? M:	Mmhm.

	O:	Okay.



	M:	Yeah.







	O:	The American Federation of Musicians? Is that— M:	Yeah.

	O:	Oh, okay.



	M:	Yes, I kept my last card. O:	Wow.

	M:	Yeah.



	O:	Now, you retired in 2000, although you still play a lot. What have been the changes you’ve seen in music since that time?

	M:	I really haven’t—[Cough] scuse me—I really haven’t been interested in listening to nobody else. Just played for myself.

	O:	Nice.



	M:	And whatever comes to my mind, I get up and play it. Make my own changes. If it sound good to me, I’ll stick with it for a while. It don’t, I’ll put some more changes in.

	O:	Right.



	M:	I always try to change something. See if I can change it. All the time you can’t change it. ‘Cause I started one time to write. I said, “Well, Imma give it a try.” I tried it, and every time, I screw it up. ‘Cause what I would do, by the time I write a four or five bars—something comes to my mind. I wanna change it. And I learned







for me, that if I change one set, I have to go through the whole sheet of music all over again and write the whole thing over, and it never come out the same.

[Laughter]



	M:	I just said, “Forget it.”



	O:	Wow. Well, Mr. Minor, I know I’ve taken up a lot of your time, but just one or two more questions. So one question would be, if you were talking today to a young musician who was thinking about making a living as a musician, what advice would you have—

	M:	For those musicians? O:	—to give to them?

	M:	First of all, when you go out looking for a job, be able to play what the people like, not what you like. That’s number one, because if you go and play all the things you like, you won’t ever keep a job. You got to be able to play some of any type of music—country, any kind of music besides what you like. And you might do pretty good. Now, some people play just jazz only. Well you’ve got to have a jazz—actually, in Pensacola right now, people don’t care for jazz too much because you can’t dance. You’ve got some jazz lovers here, but it’s not enough for the people to make any money off of it. You can carry downtown to [inaudible 00:45:49]. There will be [inaudible 00:45:53]. But you get a blues singer in there, you’ll pack the house. Call it what it is. If you sound like B.B. King, he packed the house. If it was jazz, you’re probably gonna have a nice crowd, and they’d probably all be musicians.







	O:	[Laughter] Right.



	M:	‘Cause there are people who go, “I can’t dance to that music.” That’s kind of like the first time—I never really cared for symphony, but—I went my daddy’s sister— she was older than I was—she took me to the same theater in Pensacola back in the day. To the symphony. And the reason I began to see what was happening, they played Stardust, and when I saw the different instruments changing, with this and that and that one that, and I knew the song, number one. I said, “This is crazy. All them guys be playing different things, different type of horn and stuff.

Shoot, I [inaudible 00:47:12], but if I didn’t know the song, I’d have walked out. So that’s what you gotta do. You’ve got to play what the people like.

	O:	What the people like.



	M:	That’s the only advice I’d give. You got to know, and you got to know the different type of song we used to play. ‘Cause some of your requests for different types.

So you can’t just play what you like. You got to be able to play what somebody else like. You got to listen and play. That’s the only thing I can tell em.

	O:	Listen and play.



	M:	Listen and play all kinds of music.



	O:	Alright, Mr. Minor, well, again, I’ve taken up a lot of your time. Do you have anything else you’d like to share that we haven’t talked about?

	M:	No, I’m just being at home now and playing my keyboard for me. O:	Alright.







	M:	I play what I like to play. Now, I’ve been getting into religious songs, now at home.

	O:	So your mom would like that, right?



	M:	Oh, yeah, she’d like that. She said, “Lord, have mercy on my son for playing for the devil. I wanted him to play for the church”

	O:	[Laughter] Right.



M:  That was my mother back then. ‘Cause she was playing for the church, and they were paying her two or three dollars a Sunday. I was going to make ten or fifteen dollars at my little joints. But she never didn’t say nothing about it. She never did try to stop me.

	O:	Wow.



	M:	Yeah.



	O:	Did she ever come out to watch you play?



	M:	No, she didn’t come out to watch me play. Sometimes I just practiced at home until I got good. I [inaudible 00:49:05]. And it was my own keyboard. I sneaked and played the other stuff while she was somewhere else. At night, I’d go back to trying to play some religious stuff, knowing I couldn’t play it. Yes, sir.

	O:	Alright. [End of Interview]

Transcribed by: Emma Donnelly, February 9, 2021







	Audit Edit by:	Sandra Romero, May 19, 2021 Final-edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 19, 2021