AAHP 240; Franklin; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 240 Martha Franklin, Bettye Stanford, Gloria Purnell African American History Project (AAHP)

Interviewed by Diedre Houchen on December 11, 2011 55 minutes | 25 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Martha Franklin discusses her experiences growing up and attending Lincoln High School during the years of Jim Crow segregation.





Keywords: [African American History; Alachua County, Florida; Education; Lincoln High School]





























































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 240

Interviewee: Martha Franklin, Bettye Stanford, Gloria Purnell Interviewer: Deidre Houchen

Date: December 11, 2011





	H:	This is Deidre Houchen. I’m in Gainesville, Florida. It’s December 11, 2011, and I’m interviewing Mrs. Franklin. Mrs. Franklin, can you tell me your first and last name?

	F:	Martha Louise Franklin.



H:  Thank you. So, I want to interview you today to find out more about your life and what it was like growing up, and where you grew up, so we’ll start with your early childhood. Were you born in this area?

F:   Uh [laughter] In this area. . . No, I was born in—Oh gosh. H:   It’s okay if you can’t remember it. Was it in Florida?

F:  Yes, it was in Florida. I was trying to think of the name of the street. It’s right across—where am I? Gloria?

S:   At Gloria’s house.



	P:	You at my house. You were born in Gainesville, weren’t you? F:	No, right across 34th Street.

	H:	Across 34th Street in Gainesville?



	F:	Yeah, across 34th Street. On University Avenue across 34th Street. Okay? H:	Mmhm. Do you have brothers and sisters?

	F:	Yes, I have two sisters and one brother. And they all were grown before I lost my brother and my sisters. My sisters passed when I was a young teenager. And I was a young teenager—well she was a teenager—and we lived right across 34th Street near University Avenue. This way. You know where University Avenue—





	H:	Yes, ma’am.



	F:	University Avenue ran into 34th Street, and I lived over there where that hospital was. That was my grandfather’s property. And the university wanted to buy it because it was growing to be a more popular place, like a hotel, and things like that. And they wanted to buy the property from him, so this property was sold to the hospital, he had sold it to my mother.

	H:	Your grandfather sold it to your mother?



	F:	My grandpa sold it to my mother, and my mother had passed, and my mother had given it to her children, which was me and my sisters. I had two sisters and one brother living then. So later on the university wanted to buy that property that we had. It was right across 34th Street. 34th Street was on this side, and our property was on this side of 34th Street, and so all of this was our space.

	H:	And what was it like growing up over there?



	F:	Oh, it was fine. It was just a wooded area. We lost our father, our father died when he was young. I was the last child born from our father. And then, after my mother had me, my sister—I had two sisters and I had one brother and after they were born, she stayed single for quite some time. I don’t know the time, right now I couldn’t tell you the time. But she stayed single for quite a while. And then she married again, and after she married, she married a man named Charles Akens, and she had one son by him. And they lived on this property that my grandfather had given my mother, and then my mother, she had taken that property and she divided it between her four children. Then after she had divided between the four children, then she married again. And after she married again, I was still the





youngest child and, by me being the youngest, I had the last say-so over the property because the other girls and one boy—she took three girls: Rachel, Duke—what was Martha’s sister’s name? Rachel—baby, what was Martha’s sister’s name?

	S:	I knew that was coming. Uh, Charlotte. Charlotte, Rachel, and Martha. F:	And who?

	S:	You.



	H:	That’s right.



	F:	Me, Rachel, and Charlotte. Charlotte was the oldest, Rachel was the second, and I was the baby.

	H:	Okay, so you grew up as a young child on that piece of land? F:	Yes.

	H:	And that sounds like that’s over by where I live now—in the Northwest side of Gainesville kinda, over by 34th Street? It sounds like around Rutledge area.

	F:	It is. Around Rutledge. But it’s closer to town-side, than it is out in Rutledge. And my mother, she built a little house over the property that grandpapa gave her, and we moved into the little house and, after we moved into the little house, well then she married again, and she married a man named Charles Akens. And she had one son by Charles Akens, and so it was three, four of us, or five?

	P:	Five of us.



	F:	Five of us.



	H:	Do you know how your grandfather got that piece of land?



	F:	What he gave for it? I know about how much was paid to him.





	H:	For the land when he sold it?



	F:	For the land when he sold it, because he sold his land about the time we sold our land, and we sold our land after everybody was grown but me. I was the baby child of four children, I was the youngest one.

	H:	So you were still a little girl when this land was sold. F:	Probably like my grandbaby.

	H:	Okay, so 1930s.



	F:	You know about who I’m talking about?



	H:	Yes, Janelle. The one who’s back there with Marcie.



	F:	And I was about as old as Janelle, but of course back then you didn’t call yourself grown then. You was still a young child then.

	H:	So what—I’m sorry if I interrupted you. F:	No, go ahead as you were.

	H:	What was it like growing up? What were your chores, your responsibilities as a young girl?

	F:	Well we all had chores, and I was the youngest out of the four children of my mother’s. And when Charles’s was born—he was the baby boy but he was born by a different father, our father had passed—and after our father passed then that’s when my mother married again and had Charles Akens’s. He was the youngest. Let’s see where I came in. I was about thirteen/fourteen years old.

Then the oldest children was going to school.



	H:	Where were they going to school?





	F:	They had to go to Lincoln High School, and my grandfather had to carry them to school, either my uncle had to carry them to school—my uncle had a T-model Ford, you don’t know nothing about that—But anyway, he would carry them to school in the morning so they would be there when school began, but they would have to walk from Lincoln High back down to—what’s the name of that street?

	H:	University Avenue?



	F:	They walked to University Avenue and then walked down to 34th Street, and then walked on down to our land that was sold.

	H:	Did you go to Lincoln High School as well?



	F:	Yes, I did go to Lincoln High School. It was a brand new school, just built. I was young. And all the other children, they was ahead of me, and I was the youngest, and we would walk out to the highway. I’ll tell you where our property was, do you know where the . . . hospital, the hospital on 34th Street? Bettye, is that a hospital on 34th Street?

S:  No, that’s not a hospital. It’s an orthopedic center across from the University Hilton is? The property was back behind—you know that street that runs out down across 34th? The property was back in that area.

	H:	So where UF Hilton is back behind that—where I think now there’s also some UF agriculture station. Okay. That’s a long walk to Lincoln High School.

	F:	Yes it was. A very long walk. And grandpapa would carry us to school after our father died. He took that old horse and wagon and put his children in the wagon—I wasn’t going then, it was my older sisters and my brother. I had one brother—and he’d carry us down to school in the morning, and then—





	H:	Hold on one second, Ms. Franklin.



F:  My mother and father built their home—it was right up the street—where was it? Betty, please tell me and then I can go on a little while longer and then I’ll let you have it.

	S:	There were no streets, because all of that was considered in the country out of the county. There were no streets, we just had roads. 34th Street was called the Hammock Road, it was just one car at a time could go if you had a car. And her grandparents, which was my great grandparents, they had a home back in that area that I just told you. Then my grandmother built a house down the road—not across the street—from my great grandfather’s house. It was close together, maybe about from here to across the street, but it was all the same piece of land.

	H:	And what was your great grandfather’s profession? What did he do for a living to have a piece of land?

	S:	He farmed. . . And were you asking my mother what did she do when she was growing up? Nothing, she was spoiled. She was the baby of the family, so she didn’t do too much but follow her grandmother around. Her mother took her brother and Uncle Luis, Aunt Rachel, and Aunt Charlotte to Tampa—

	H:	And raised them?



	S:	No, in order to work. In order to make a living. She left my mother here in the country with her grandparents, because she was too little to go to school and too little to go to work, so she hung out with her grandparents and aggravated them until her mother got settled down and her mother came to get her and took her to





Tampa. So her early childhood she grew up in Tampa. Her first schooling was in Tampa, it wasn’t here. She went to Dobeyville Elementary School.

	H:	Say that again?



	S:	Dobey. Ville.



	H:	Dobeyville: D-O-B-E-Y—



	F:	D-O-B-E-F-O-L. I never will forget the name of the school.



	S:	I thought it was Dobeyville? Well they could’ve changed it because that wasn’t it, but I wasn’t there either.

	H:	We’ll I’ll look it up, we’ll find the—and do you remember that school at all? F:	Do I remember the school?

	H:	Not the school building but what going to school was like.



	F:	Oh, going to school it was very good, and I went through first, second, and third grade there, and then when I left there—you can tell it better than I can. I know where I went and I know what time of year it was, but Bettye, if you want to finish it out, go ahead.

	H:	Can I ask one more question about your school first, Mrs. Franklin? Do you remember what your teachers were like? Anything about how that was.

	F:	Well, my first teacher was a man. He was a very calm man and he told us he wanted us to be nice children and get our lessons. He had patience, because boys was devilish then just like they are, and sometimes they would get on his nerves. He’d have to tell them where to get off at. And we girls, we never did give him any trouble. We’d just sit and did what he asked us to do and did our lessons





and things like that. I was little then, I was very little, because I only went through the third grade there in Tampa. They were mixed.

	H:	Some Black and some White principals?



	F:	Like they are now. We just had kind of a normal school, it was more White than it was Black. But me, myself, and I, I was from the country, see, because we was living in the country, but in the mornings we would go to town to school, and I would learn to behave and not give the principal or my teacher any trouble. Of course, I didn’t go any further than the fourth grade out here, but when we moved to town and started living in the town, I did go to the sixth grade before I stopped school.

	H:	And was that in Gainesville that you went up to the sixth grade in? F:	Yeah, in Gainesville.

	H:	What was the name of the school that you went up to sixth grade in? F:	Lincoln High.

	H:	So fifth grade and sixth grade you would be at Lincoln High here?



	F:	Mmhm. I did all my schooling right here in—no, no I didn’t—in Tampa and in Gainesville.

	H:	And what was Lincoln High like at that time?



	F:	Well I didn’t go any further than the sixth grade in Lincoln High and I couldn’t tell you anything about beyond sixth grade.

	H:	Did you like it when you were there? F:	Yes I did.

	H:	Because I hear wonderful things about it.





	F:	Yeah, I did like it. And I liked the teachers, the teachers was very nice. And I think they gave the children more leeway than I thought they needed themselves.

	H:	So was it that they were loving and caring in a givingly way, or just that they didn’t care and like?—

	F:	No, no, they did it with loving and they was caring, and they were just good teachers. Yes, they was. And the children mind them very well, and in the third grade I can remember that if the teacher was having the class and the boys over there in that corner was getting kinda loud or something and she’d raise up and hold her hand up until she’d catch their eyes and they’d catch her eyes and just get quiet.

	H:	That’s right, that’s a good teacher. So, were the teachers at Lincoln Black or White teachers?

	F:	White.



	H:	It was White teachers at Lincoln?



	F:	Some of them was White and some was Black. H:	Okay, so it was mixed.

	F:	Sure was. And I tell you, the one that was White—mixed—and that’s—what school do your babies go to?

	P:	My babies or my grandbabies? F:	Your grandbabies.

	P:	Duval?



	F:	Duval.





	P:	Oh, Mrs. Duval was there? Mrs. Duval wasn’t White, though. She was just fair skinned.

	F:	She asked me what—ask it again.



	H:	Were the teachers Black or White at Lincoln? F:	At Lincoln, they were Black at Lincoln.

	H:	All of them?



	F:	Mmhm. They were Black at Lincoln.



	S:	Even some of them that looked like they were White were—



	H:	Fair skinned, they were fair skinned. And what about principals? Because I thought Lincoln was—

	F:	Mixed.



	S:	Lincoln only had one principal. H:	The whole time?

	F:	No, she’s right. Lincoln started off over here. Not over there, but across town.



Across University.



	S:	No, Lincoln started off over on the west side of town, over there in the Fifth Avenue district? You know where A. Quinn Jones is now? That was Lincoln High School. First through twelfth—

	H:	And the principal was?—



	S:	A. Quinn Jones was always the principal of Lincoln until he moved over here in southeast Gainesville when John Dukes became principal.

	H:	Okay. I didn’t know that A. Quinn Jones was principal the whole time she was there.





	S:	Well, they could never get another principal—



	F:	A. Quinn Jones was not the principal the whole time. P:	Yes he was. Old Lincoln, Momma; not new Lincoln. F:	They’re right, you’re right.

	P:	At the new Lincoln, Otha Nealy was principal, and A. Quinn Jones, and then John Dukes was principal when integration came in and they closed it as a high school and made it a middle school, and then they went to Eastside. So they had three principals. But the whole time Lincoln was across town, A. Quinn Jones was principal.

	F:	You’re right.



	H:	So clearly you have some children. How many children do you have, Mrs.



Franklin?



	F:	Me, myself, and I. How many children? H:	Yes ma’am.

	F:	I had two boys. I had one, two, I lost one, three, four, Carolyn, and then another one and then—

	P:	That’s it. You had six children. H:	Two boys and four girls?

	F:	Mmhm.



	H:	Okay. And one passed?



	S:	Two. One daughter and one son.



	P:	Actually three. Two died as infants and then Kai passed, so that would’ve been three.





	H:	Okay. So you went to work after sixth grade, and before you had children? F:	Oh, yeah. [Laughter]

	H:	And what kind of work did you do?



	F:	Maybe pick up peas and—just little work, following my grandmother mostly.



That’s what I was doing.



	H:	And that was here?



	F:	Yeah, that was here. Following my grandmother, and couldn’t carry this—you know—doing low-life work. I would get paid for it, twenty-five cents a day.

	H:	And was this on your grandfather’s land or were you working for someone else here?

	F:	I started with working for somebody else and my grandfather thought that I wasn’t getting enough money for the time I was out there on the field working all day for twenty-five cents. He didn’t think that was right for me to be doing that, so I just followed my grandmother around. And he raised it to fifty cents, and I did that until I got tired of it and I wrote my mother—my mother was in Tampa—and she had the oldest children with her in Tampa. And I wrote her and told her I wanted to come to where she was because I was tired of picking peas and cutting cabbages, and I wanted to come live with her. So she wrote my grandmother, who was I staying with? I was staying with my mother. But anyway, I went to my mother to stay with her and I started school in Tampa, where my other sisters was. You all didn’t start school until you came to Gainesville, didn’t you?

	S:	Who? You were a little girl. We wasn’t born, mother.





	F:	You was a little girl? S:	You were a little girl.

	F:	Oh. What am I talking about? P:	I don’t know. [Laughter]

	H:	So what happened? I’m trying to fill in the gap between sixth grade and having children. Where were you—were you in Gainesville after that?

	S:	She was here. She did domestic work. That was the days before it was called day’s work.

	H:	Yes.



F:  Yes. I forgot that I babysat for those people. H:  And that was here in Gainesville?

S:  That was here. She used to work for different professors at the university who wanted someone to come in and take care of the kids and prepare meals and stuff. So that’s what she did before.

F:   See Bettye was the oldest girl—



	S:	I wasn’t born, you just done told me this story so many times it’s like I was there. H:	So now we’re talking about probably 1930/1940, right? Would that be right?

F:   Mmhm.



S:  That would be the late [19]20s-early [19]30s, because my oldest brother was born in [19]35, so prior to that she didn’t have children.

H:   Okay.



	F:	So from then on, I got married. Then I had all these children.





	H:	Okay. And what about your husband—was Gainesville named Gainesville at that time?

	F:	Yes.



	H:	Okay, so was he from Gainesville also?



	F:	No, he was not from Gainesville. He was from—where was he from? P:	He was from Columbia, out of Lake City?

	H:	Okay.



	F:	And then he came to Gainesville and started working for the university. And he was working for the university, I was working around the White folks’ house taking care of their children in the afternoon when they get out of school and I get out of school.

	H:	Where would professors live at that time? Where would these houses be, which part of Gainesville?

	F:	Professor Jones, he lived in a rented house when he first came to Gainesville. He lived in a nice rented house, the best-looking colored grey house you know, on Columbia Street. That’s just across the street from the school. And—

	S:	You talking about A. Quinn Jones, principal of Lincoln? F:	Yeah.

	S:	By Columbia Street? She probably don’t know where Columbia Street is because I barely remember that myself.

	H:	Is that over where A. Quinn Jones is now?



	S:	Mmhm. You know where they have now made his house a historical house?





	H:	I did not know that. Okay, I know the school, but I didn’t know his house. I’ll drive by.

	S:	Across the street, that’s where he lived. F:	He lived in that house—

	S:	But all those streets had names then and eventually they changed all of them to numbers. Some streets, they still have the name and the number over in that section of town.

	H:	Mmhm. And your children went to Lincoln as well? F:	Yeah, my children went to Lincoln now . . .

	S:	We went to a lot of schools. . . All four of us went to Lincoln to high school. We didn’t go to Lincoln to elementary school.

	H:	Where did you go?—



S:  I went to St. Augustine Episcopal, which was called Ms. Jackson’s School, and then from there I went to Williams Elementary, and then from Williams I went to Lincoln. Gloria knows when to—

P:   I went to St. Augustine for two years and then I went to Williams.



	H:	What is St. Augustine’s Episcopal School? Like that St. Augustine Catholic Church?

	P:	It was a part of the Catholic Church in that time, yeah. F:	Episcopal Church.

	P:	It was a part of that church that was on Main Street, that St. Augustine that was on Main?—

	S:	That’s the Episcopal Church.





	P:	Yeah, on Main Street, it was a part of that one, because I recall going there during the Christmas holidays for, like, a play? And then some of them would come over to where we were when we would put our little programs on. The one that we attended was right off of Fifth Avenue. I don’t know if you know where the old Mt. Carmel Baptist Church is on Fifth Avenue?

	H:	Is it a white building? P:	It’s a red brick.

	F:	No, it’s a Black church.



	S:	No, it’s a red brick church. P:	Yeah, a red brick.

	H:	No, I don’t know where it is.



	S:	Well it was right down the street from there. About two blocks down the street from there. Um, as a matter of fact—

	P:	Do you know where the Rose Theater used to be? H:	No, ma’am

	S:	No, she’s not that old. [Laughter]. Uh, Santa Fe campus that’s off of Fifth Avenue. Okay, if you’re on Sixth Street and if you come back toward Main Street it’s about two blocks off of Sixth Street. It’s a little subdivision up in there, and it was in that subdivision.

	H:	Okay.



	S:	It’s still there, isn’t it?



	P:	Yeah, I guess. I haven’t been up in there in so long— H:	And that’s not where Bell Nursery is now?





	S:	No, uh-uh.



	H:	Okay, but is it in that area we’re talking about, kinda?



	S:	Bell Nursery? No, Bell Nursery is off of Eighth Avenue. Well, Bell Nursery started, uh . . . I’m trying to remember, where did it start?

	P:	In the house across the street from Mt. Carmel, didn’t it?



	S:	Yeah. It sure did, right there on that corner. It’s where it started before they moved into where they currently are.

	H:	Okay, and what is with Bell Nursery, like, why is that particular nursery so well- known?

	S:	Probably because it was one of the first real— F:	Black nurseries.

	S:	Well Black nurseries, yes, but it was also ran by people who were educated. It was more of an organized nursery, because until then people just kept children at home of whoever in the neighborhood kept your children. So that was one of the first places you actually had to send children, and it was Black owned.

	H:	Okay, and who were the owners? S:	Oh, gosh. That I cannot tell you. F:	Ruth, uh . . .

	S:	Ruth what?



	F:	What was the lady’s name? Well, I’ll have to think about it. H:	That’s alright.

	P:	Didn’t Ms. White own it for a while? S:	No, not that nursery.





	H:	So who kept your children when you were working and your husband was working? [Laughed]. Ms. Bettye’s hand is raised.

	F:	Who kept my children? Well let me see.



	P:	We kept ourselves, ‘cause back then you didn’t send children anywhere. The neighbors looked out for all the children in the neighborhood, and our home then was located right next door to my house right over there. That’s where our home was.

	S:	Where that brown house is.



	F:	Right over here? Oh my goodness, okay.



	P:	And right next to that house where that vacant lot is we had a neighbor, Ms.



Harrell who also had children in our age group, so she didn’t work, so Ms. Harrell pretty much looked after us along with our older sister, and so then that’s what you did, you know, and you had a certain time you had to be in the house, and that’s where you stayed. And if you weren’t in the house she’d come to that door and she said, “Okay, is time for y’all to go in.” And everybody went in, and you knew to stay in the house until your parents got home.

	H:	Wow. So what made you move from where your grandfather and your mom was over to this area?

	F:	Oh, you asking me that? H:	Yes, Mrs. Franklin.

	F:	Well the university was buying from town, this way, well it was the town. And it was growing out—

	H:	Out toward where your property was?





	F:	Yes, and now they wanted to buy that land so that they could build university things, and they did. They bought the land from my grandfather first and now some of it they had bought some from other people, too. My grandfather and other people was in land running from University Avenue and back to Arredondo.

	H:	Arredondo, is that? Okay. I’m gonna stop this for one second. [Break in recording]. What I want to know is—the reason I’m doing this—is ‘cause I’m concerned about kids and school, and I’m concerned particularly about kids who go to school on the east side of town, so I’m trying to learn from the past. I think what I want to know is, what is different about school now and when you went to school at Lincoln, and how would you want your great grandchildren to be raised? Not to be raised by their family, but in school. What would you want to see happen for them in school?

	F:	I really would like for them to be raised like my girls and my boys, because if they did anything wrong that the teachers thought was unbecoming to them, they would let us know, and we was the one to do the discipline.

	H:	So the teachers stayed in contact with the parents and then had you discipline your children?

	F:	Mmhm.



	H:	Um, what about you, Ms. Bettye? Based on how you went to school, what do you think the differences are between how you went to school and what’s going on now in schools?

	S:	Basically the biggest change I see is that the children are in charge as opposed to when I was in school the adults were in charge. It’s good to give children some





attitude, but they also have to have discipline, and children aren’t being disciplined anymore. And that doesn’t necessarily mean whipped—and a lot of times you say discipline and the first thing people thing you’re talking about is spanking them, but it’s not—people disciplined us, but they never laid a hand on us most of the time. I only remember really getting two good whippings when my parents were growing up, one from my dad and one from my mom. That would suffice. We didn’t go through that no more. But children now, they don’t have the degree of respect for adults and they don’t get the discipline that they need in order to make it in this world, and I think we had the advantage, because our teachers wanted to see us do well, and because they wanted to see us do well, they fed into what we needed, but they did in a stern manner. Now it seems though teachers try to be too much of the children’s friend rather than being the authoritative person in the classroom, so the child might end up running the classroom. As a result, the children who want to learn can’t, and then only those who are disruptive get the attention. And I think that’s one thing I would like to see change, I would like to see that flip-flop so the children who want to learn can, and where the teacher has some authority. I mean, authority with teeth in it.

	H:	Right. What about you, Ms. Gloria?



	P:	Well I think what I would like to see in the schools, number one, I would like to see more Black educators in school. We now have more of the Caucasians and some Latinos that teach our children at young ages, so therefore they don’t have that person to identify with, and because they’re being taught by another race, they don’t know how to identify with our children. Because the cultures are





different, and so what is happening is we’re trying to put our children into their culture, and our children is now losing their own identity and their own culture. I think that Black history should be just as much as part of the school as White history. I don’t think it should just be taught once a month, or once a year for a month, because so much was given to this country by the slaves, and even though they don’t want it to be recognized as that and they talk about “well, you shouldn’t talk about—” but, it should be talked about. It was a part of American history, and it should be taught as a part of American history. I also feel as though—pretty much the same thing like my sister was saying is that—we need to put our young people back in young people places. And when I say that, I have referenced more or less to the fact that they need to be taught basic morals, they need to be taught respect, they need to be taught just the basic way of growing up so that when they grow up they have not only education, but they have the common sense. So many of them don’t have this plain old common sense anymore, and I often think about my father, who finished—what—sixth grade, seventh grade? But there wasn’t anything—any business transaction, anything—he could not do, and he didn’t have a formal education, but he had all of the common sense knowledge he needed to succeed in life, and our children don’t have that anymore. We don’t have enough of our young people who even know what they want to do in life anymore. And sure, things are changing, and it’s moving at a much faster pace, and the technology is changing, and all of that, and I expect them to be a part of that world just as we were a part of the changes when we came along. But you can’t appreciate where you’re going until you





know where you came from, and you need to always remember where you came from so you don’t lose where you want to go. So those are just some of the things that I look at now and teenage pregnancies are just running rampant, and that used to be a stigma, and now it’s so acceptable, you know, it’s almost like it’s a fad anymore. And you have children raising children and because they don’t know they can’t teach their children, and so you start these cycles that just continue to go on and on and on, so it’s a multitude of things. We have taken on so many of the negative behaviors from other cultures and lost a lot of the positive behaviors from our own that I think would help our young people if they were reinstituted again, so that’s all.

	H:	Thank you. But there were some things, Ms. Bettye, that you wanted to correct on the tape. Was there anything that you want to add, or correct about the story so far?

	S:	No, I think I corrected—because Mom’s getting off the track with her early age, so I was trying to put it in perspective in the right order for you so that you could understand what she was trying to—I knew what she was trying to say. It can be confusing unless you’ve heard the stories before.

	H:	Well thank you all. I’m gonna turn it off now. [End of Interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Cristina Rodriguez, February 9, 2018 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 21, 2019