AAHP 686; Turner; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 686 Melvin Turner, Jr.



Interviewed by Paul Ortiz and Teniade Broughton on July 7, 2019 36 Pages

Abstract:

Keywords: [African American History; Pensacola, Florida; US Marine Corp.; racial integration]



AAHP 686

Interviewee: Melvin Turner

Interviewer: Paul Ortiz and Teniade Broughton Date: July 7, 2019



	O:	So, we are here with Mr. Melvin Turner Jr. We are at the Chappie James Museum in Pensacola, Florida. My name is Paul Ortiz, from the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program. It is Sunday, July 7th, and first of all, I want to start by thanking Mr. Turner for taking time out of your Sunday to be with us today. We really appreciate it. Mr. Turner, I wonder if we could start by, if you wouldn’t mind telling me, a little bit about what life was like where you were born, where you were growing up as a young boy, and what life was like?

	T:	I was born at St. Joseph’s Lady of Angels Hospital, where most of the Blacks in the area were born. They couldn’t go to other hospitals and stuff like that. But when growing up right there in the Tanyard area, was the only place in Pensacola, the only place I know anywhere that had mixed housing. You had Blacks, Whites, and some Creoles, a lot of Creoles, and some Indians. Very few Indians. It was all mixed up right there in the Tanyard area. You couldn’t find that anywhere else, it was just in Pensacola. So growing up, and you’re having White kids that you can play with living across the street or around the corner, and when you see them downtown, they won’t speak to you. That’s just the way it was. And so, everyone accepted it as that. When you get back in the neighborhood, then everything was okeydokey. I was kinda strange to live like that, but that’s the way it was.

	O:	When do you first notice how life was kinda strange? When did that first occur to you?





	T:	I don’t think I really realized that it was strange until I got away from home. ‘Cause growing up, that’s the way it was, and when I got away from home, I realized that Tanyard situation was probably different from anywhere else in the country, in that particular neighborhood. That was the only place, before any integration or anything even started, we were already integrated in the neighborhood. But once you got out of the neighborhood it was a completely different story. When you saw somebody, waving at them, they wouldn’t wave back. You’d speak to them, they didn’t wanna speak. And then it was not just the total Whites, but some of the Black people in the neighborhood that could pass for White were the same way. You see them downtown, they wouldn’t wanna speak. They wouldn’t wave back at you if you waved at them and stuff like that. So it was accepted. That’s the way it was.

	O:	Was sometimes would you say, “Hey you know who I am,” kinda thing? Kinda go up to them?

	T:	No, see, what we would do, we would yell out, “see you in school tomorrow!” because everybody knew that that schools were segregated. So when you tell it out like that to them it was kinda funny.

	O:	How would they react?



	T:	They would keep going. We crack on them sometimes. And St. Joseph’s was kinda mixed. You had a— I wanna say Whites, but a lot of people who could pass for White. I wish I had a photograph, I would show you from the school. In





the third and fourth grade class, and you could pick out in the photos those who looked like they were White. So that’s the way it was.

	O:	Mr. Turner, can you tell me about your parents and your family? Were they always in Pensacola? Did they move here?

	T:	I think my family on my mother’s side moved here from down Vernon Way, Chipley, I don’t know exactly…

	O:	Kinda deeper in the panhandle area?



	T:	Somewhere between here and Panama City. There’s some kin people right there on Vernon, we got my mother’s older sister, her and her kids grew up in a little place outside of Panama City. I can’t think of the name of the place.

Woodhaven? Lynn Haven.



	O:	Lynn Haven? Okay.



	T:	That’s where they all grew up. Now one of her sons is still living in that area, he’s down in Chipley. Well, they call it Chipley. Him and his wife. Her oldest son, he’s up in Maryland, right near D.C. And his sisters, they all spread out somewhere. I haven’t seen any of them in a while. The oldest boy, he came down for a family reunion a couple years ago and stayed with me, in my house, and the youngest boy, we’ve been to his house and he’s come. He had a home here in Pensacola— not his home, but we’ve had gatherings, we had a Labor Day party and picnic, he and his wife came a couple years ago. We see each other now and then, but not on a daily basis.





	O:	Mr. Turner, when you were growing up, did your mother or other elders talk about how life was like for them? Like in earlier times? Earlier generations?

	T:	I never really heard anybody speak anything about how things were for them.



You just accepted things the way they were. My grandmother – my great- grandmother was actually White. My grandmother, she was mixed, but she looked more White than Black. My father’s side of the family, there was a mix there too. And my grandmother was a medium to dark skin, and my father was lighter than me. That’s when I don’t have all this sun tanned look. Both sides of the family was mixed up.

	O:	Right.



	T:	I didn’t have any animosity towards Whites and stuff like that. Tried to get along with them, then the elderlies would tell those kids not to associate, not to mess with. So that’s how that was.

	O:	You mentioned school earlier. What was school life like, when you started school?

	T:	School, I started off in Kindergarten, which was right down on Zaragoza Street, used to call it Liberty Street, from my house. I was just right across. Old lady named Ms. Boeings, and she had a little Kindergarten there, and that’s where we went to Kindergarten before we went to St. Joseph, and I started out, first grade St. Joseph. We had all the nuns there, and kinda strict. They wanted you to learn, so I appreciated it. And when my father— I think I might have been in





about the sixth grade, he wanted to take me out of St. Joseph and send me to a public school, and I said “No, I’m gonna stay at St. Joseph.”

	O:	Why?



	T:	I enjoyed St. Joseph. I loved it. I mean, it was only two and a half blocks to walk to school, and friends and whatever and stuff like that, and I got used to the nuns. I was an altar boy at the church, so I was raised by the church basically. I didn’t wanna leave.

	O:	Why did your father want to try to transfer you over to—?



	T:	Cause he didn’t want to have to pay the tuition. You had to pay to go to St. Joseph’s So what I did, I started cutting grass, and making a little money or whatever, and I paid my own tuition, but it he would come, when it was time to pay it, and give me the money, and I’d tell him, “I already paid it,” and he said, “But that’s yours.” So I put it back in my pocket. But my daddy, he took care of me, the best way he could, but he didn’t do a steady job. He’d go down to Joe Patti’s and work whenever he felt like working, and that was it.

	O:	Did you have friends that went to the public school? Say, Booker T. Washington?



	T:	Oh yeah. I had friends all over town. Being at Bruce’s all the time during the summertime, I came in contact with a whole lot of people all over town that came down to Bruce’s. A lot of people in Washington. I played basketball with St.

Joseph’s. We didn’t have a football team or baseball team, all we had was basketball. And playing basketball against some of the other schools and whatever, you got to know people. A lot of people in the neighborhood went to





public schools. Everybody that was in the Tanyard didn’t go to St. Joseph’s. So, I knew a lot of people. I played little league baseball, came in contact with a lot of people other than St. Joseph’s people, people who come from the north part – on the other side of the Village District, and played a lot of people who lived right there in that area. The Village area would come down and play little league baseball. Mr. Black was my coach from the little league and down to the pony league when they built the ballpark down near Bruce. So I played until I was fifteen years, and that same coach.

	O:	All the way through you had the same coach?



	T:	Mm-hm. Little league all the way to pony league. Nathaniel Black. I used to be a taxi driver.

	O:	How is the league set up? Was it a city-wide league, or was it based on neighborhoods?

	T:	You could come from anywhere in town to that recreation park. It wasn’t restricted to just one area. So, you wanted to play, right there in the Tanyard little league ballpark, you could come from Cantonment, if you could get there in time for the games, and practices and stuff like that. So it didn’t matter. I played little league football over on that diamond, and we played all our games in the new field. Right there where the barn store is, and I left home during Winter, come back and that barn store on top of my football field. So that’s what happened. [Laughter]

	O:	So, when little league, like with the baseball, who were your main rivals?





	T:	We just had named teams, we had the Red Birds, and the whatever…I think I was on the Red Birds, I can’t even remember the rest of the names of the teams, and then when I went down to Bruce’s for the Pony League— after you reach a certain age you leave little league— and I played with the Cardinals, which was Mr. Black’s team, and we were red again. It was a pretty good experience playing baseball. I enjoyed the game. My dad played baseball, and he taught me how to pitch, and I ended being a pitcher. I was playing third base when I started off, first timed trials, I’m scooping ball up and flipping it and whatever, and Mr. Black sent me out in center field, he didn’t want any showboats in the infield. But then eventually I came in to the infield and then played third base. I played third base all the way through. When he wanted me to pitch the next day, then I would go out in center field ‘cause he didn’t want me to throw an arm out. How I started pitching, one of the pitchers was warming up. I said, “Let me throw a few,” and Mr. Black watched and he came to me after he watched us, and he asked me if I could pitch the game tomorrow. I said, “Yeah, I’ll pitch.” First game, no hitter.

	O:	Who were some of your idols growing up? Like sports, did you follow college, professional…?

	T:	Basketball, since we only had that one team at St. Joseph, I kind of followed basketball. Boston Celtics, at that time was— I can’t think of the guy’s name, Bill Russell playing, and similar, but I played guard positions so I wouldn’t fall, but I could play it if I had to. Wish the coach didn’t put me in sometimes. But I was a guard.

	O:	Who played guards on those Celtics teams? They had –





	T:	Bob Cousy, and he was one of my idols. I liked his style of play. I played the game sometimes holding the ball behind my back and this and that.

	O:	We still have, you would love this, there’s a still a guard from one of those great teams. Of course Bill Russell is still alive. But he lives in Florida. One of my grad students is writing a dissertation on a great Black basketball coach, Coach John McLendon, who developed the form one corner offense. He coached this played, and he won five or six championships with Russell, played guard, still alive. It’s come to me later. But you watched him if you watched Russell play. Those are great teams.

	T:	Back in that day. I just like the Celtics team, and kind of took a lot from Bill Russell and the way he played. I kind of took my style of play from him.

	O:	So sports were always important for you?



T:  Yeah. I played all of ‘em. I played basketball, baseball, ran track. Bruce’s had a swimming team. I was on the swimming team. I learned how to swim in Bruce’s when it first opened. When that pool first opened, I learned how to swim ‘cause they started swimming classes. The first swim meet, I won gold meetings, and I held onto them until I was nineteen years old.

O:  How old were you when you first started? T:  Six.

	O:	Was there someone teaching people how to swim?





	T:	The life guards that started it off was Tony Mcree, Gilda Marvery, Neil Shelby, and Simon Servals. And they start having swim classes going, Gilda Marvey was doing, they initiated the water shows, we had water shows, and synchronized swimming and stuff like that. And then the swim meets at the end of the season. It was great.

	O:	I’ll ask a question, ‘cause in Gainesville, of course the pool was segregated, the public pool, but there was a pool that African Americans used, and there was a great man who was a coach, but also he taught swimming to Black youth, and he just passed away about three or four years ago. But it was really unusual at the time, because Blacks couldn’t go to the main pool, but they had another pool that was connected to the Black high school.

	T:	If you wanted to go to the pool, you had to go to Bruce’s down here. That was it. Now, when it came time to take lessons to become a lifeguard, we had to go to the Red Cross, and the Red Cross had a pool. Or, you had to go to the YMCA, which was up here on Palafox, has been torn down now. And that’s how you got your certification for lifeguard. And I started off junior lifeguard, then a senior lifeguard, then a water safety instructor, and I got all that through Bruce’s pool. I wasn’t official lifeguard paid through the city or whatever, but once I got my certification, I was down there acting as if I did work there, and I saved some lives over at that pool.

	O:	What was that like? Do you remember the first experience you had? Are you pulling people out of the water?





	T:	Yeah. It was like doing like as I was trained. There wasn’t any excitement or anything like that. It was a big thrill, but just doing what I was trained to do.

	O:	How old were you, the first life that you saved?



	T:	I might have been about thirteen-fourteen years old. O:	Can you describe the situation? What happened?

	T:	Well, the first one was actually in the pool. This guy, this friend of mine, named Horace Hardaway, it was his little sister, and the lifeguards were sitting over there, standing, whatever, and they didn’t see the girl. She came off the diving board with a perfect dive. To look at that girl come off that board, would be as if she knew what she was doing, she’s doing it before. But she was struggling on the bottom trying to come up, and she just wasn’t moving. I noticed it. The other lifeguards didn’t notice it, so I jumped down in there and pulled her up. And you’re trained, where a victim grabs your head and whatever, and I was still in training at the time. I didn’t have any certification at that point. So when she grabbed me around my neck, I did just like I was trained. Tuck, pull my head underwater, ‘cause she’s not going back down, and so she got loose, I spin her body around, reached around and grabbed her and pulled her on out of the pool. That’s the way I was trained. I didn’t get a special deal out of it or anything, it was a friend of mine, his little sister.

	O:	Did you ever have to do CPR?



	T:	No, didn’t have to do that, she didn’t swallow any water or whatever. She just got up and she walked off.





	O:	Did she ever thank you? Just in shock, or…



	T:	Yeah, I don’t know. I didn’t do it for thanks. And there was one time I jumped over the fence at the pool. Somebody was drowning down at Bruce’s at the beach. I jumped over the fence, ran down there and pulled that person out of the water. I don’t even remember to this day who the person was.

	O:	You say them off in the beach drowning?



	T:	Yeah. I wasn’t the only one to do that. There was other lifeguards that had done that too. It didn’t happen just that one time. A lot of times. They built that pool to keep people from going down there and drowning. They would still go down there and swim anyway rather going in the pool.

	O:	I heard the tide is really tough.



	T:	It wasn’t so much the tide, it was the drop off. We call that spot the two step, cause if you take two steps from dry land and step over there, it drops straight down. There used to be an old drive out where ships used to come in. My grandmother was telling me— my father’s mother, about how some hurricane came— I don’t know what name of the hurricane was, but a hurricane came to it and tore that place up, and they never rebuilt it. And there was three pylons where you could see, first, second and third pocket. People who could swim would swim out to them or past them. They had a little island way out there, would we’d go out to the island. And we’d climb on that first pylon, and had telephone pole sticking way up, and we’d climb up the pole and dive off, and stuff like that. Those that knew how to swim. But you got people who did know how to





swim, and they’d step off in the water, and straight down. And they would drown. That’s how a lot of people would drown there. It was something.

	O:	What were the beaches like back then? Did you go swimming in other beaches, other areas, other than that?

	T:	We went to Johnson Beach, or Wingate’s Beach, which was way down the 98.



You go up the east highway. You past Wingate before you get to Johnson’s. Johnson’s beach they got now, they’re made it a national park, so people have to pay to go in there, probably have eliminated a lot of people going down there to Johnson’s beach. But I’ve got one of the lifetime passes in my pocket.

	O:	Nice. [Laughter] As a young boy, would you go swimming in Johnson’s quite a bit?

	T:	Yes. We went to the beach. My Uncle Willie, on my mother’s side, Willie Carter, he would load all of us in his station wagon, take off to go to the beach on Sundays, and that’s what we’d do. He have eleven kids, and I’m tagging along after my mother died. She died when I was about two years old. But I tagged along with my uncle and all his kids. Willie Carter, I’ll try to get him to come in, we’re gonna have an interview together. He’s the oldest from my Uncle Willie, I’m the oldest from my mother. Well, I’m the only one from my mother. Can’t think of anything else right off the hand.

	O:	Well I was wondering a couple things now. In terms of swimming and athletics – you were playing baseball, and basketball, and football, and learning how to be a





lifeguard. Were you thinking about a career as a teenager, or thinking about going to college?

	T:	My father’s sister used to tell me that, since I was a kid, I’ve always said that I was gonna join the Marines, and that’s what I did. So, I joined the Marines. I was gonna make a career out of it, but I got court martialed, and that killed that.

	O:	How did you get from Pensacola to the Marines? Was there recruitment?



	T:	Recruitment – It used to be the old post office right there. I think it’s Wentworth Building…it’s the courthouse now. They use it for courthouse. But that building had the recruiter’s office in it, and that’s where I went and signed up. Then got to Trail way bus, and went to Parris Island, and started boot camp.

	O:	What was boot camp right?



	T:	It was just like everybody says it, probably. It wasn’t as hard for me as like people would say. Because my athletic ability. I was going to a catholic school— strictness, discipline. It was kind of a breeze to me, I enjoyed it.

O:  Do you know what year that was, when you did boot camp? T:  1966. September 21st, I think when I landed in Parris Island. O:   Were people talking about the Vietnam War yet, in [19]66?

	T:	Oh yeah. The Vietnam War was going on at that time. And right out of boot camp, a lot of the guys that graduated from boot camp with me, got orders to Vietnam. Well, not straight out of boot camp, they had to go to training prior to going overseas, but as soon as they completed that training they were gone. I





was sent to Camp Lejeune, North Carolina. And I was placed in the Medical Battalion. I had a full service in the west, but I was placed in the Medical Battalion, preparing food. Each unit had separate cooks and whatever. Then, the Medical Battalion went on a Caribbean cruise, and we set up camp down there, Puerto Rico. When we came back off that cruise, we had a field exercise right there, and shortly after that I got orders to go to Vietnam, which was about a year after I graduated from boot camp. Two tours in Vietnam. First one, came back, and then went to the Marine barracks in California, and about a year and a half, almost two years later, went back to Vietnam.

	O:	What was Vietnam like?



	T:	It was a warzone. Mud, everywhere. No greenery in a lot of places because of that Agent Orange, killing all of the shrubberies and plants. Everything was dead. It was just a lot of mud. The fighting and whatever I don’t really like to talk about. My friends over there died and stuff like that, so I try not to get into it.

	O:	What units where you in?



	T:	I was in 1st Battalion 4th Marines. O:	Okay.

	T:	The first time. The second time was FLSC, Forest Logistics Unit, where I worked in the offices.

	O:	Did the war have an impact on the African American community in Pensacola?





	T:	I don’t know. Nobody ever talked about any impact. Everyone was struggling for equal rights at that time. That’s when Martin Luther King was doing his marching and stuff like that. If there was any emphasis on anything, it was on the Martin Luther King thing, not on Vietnam. That’s why a lot of people come back from Vietnam but wasn’t greeted at home. Being spit at. It didn’t happen to me, but I heard a lot about that.

	O:	But there were changes in Pensacola more because of the Civil Rights Movement?

	T:	You could see changes. We used to go down to Newberries, you couldn’t eat at the counter; you had to order your stuff to go. Once segregation was ended, you could go down to the Newberries and sit at the counter. That was the only change. The attitude of the people was still the same.

	O:	What do you mean by that?



T:  That waiter or waitress who was behind the counter, when you couldn’t sit at that counter, the attitude was the same when you could sit at the counter, if you know what I mean.

O:   Okay.



	T:	It took a while for attitudes and people to change. The structure changed, but that was it. And then people yelling racial slurs all the time, that was still there, that never went away at that point. I mean later on. Today there’s probably still a lot of— it’s covered up. You don’t see it as much as you did then, but some of that’s still there. I try not to dwell on stuff like that. Not me personally anymore,





	O:	Well how did your life change, Mr. Turner, in the [19]70s, when you came back to Pensacola, what were you doing in terms of work, and life in general?

	T:	Well I was still in the Marine Corps. I didn’t get out of the Marine Corps until 1985. I was Court Martialed. I was traveling around the world here and there. I’d come home and visit, but I didn’t do a whole lot of running around in different places or whatever, I’d just come home and see family, and then I’m gone again. When I came home in 2015, the landscape had changed a whole lot from what I remember, and the people are a lot of different from what I remember. Some people.

	O:	How so?



	T:	The relationship between Blacks and Whites is a lot different. You don’t notice all of the racial slurs here and there, and you go to functions, people will greet you. Now, not like when I was growing up, they see you coming and they turn around and walk away, you know, get out of your way. You noticed that difference.

Anybody could probably notice that I guess.



	O:	What hasn’t changed?



	T:	I can’t think of anything that hasn’t changed. Everything has changed. O:	It seems everything has changed.

	T:	People got older. I can’t recognize some people that I used to know because they old.





	O:	What do you miss about the older times? People talk, all these changes happening. What do you miss? Maybe you don’t miss anything, I don’t know.

	T:	I don’t think I miss anything, because I’m the type of person who always looks for new experience. And so, whatever happened in the past is done and gone, so show me something new. That’s my attitude about life.

	O:	What other things have you done, or started doing, when you came to Pensacola? Have you been involved in athletics, or church activities, or any types of organized things?

	T:	Well, I started off playing softball with the Pensacola Seniors down near Lions Park, and I did that for a couple of seasons, couple of years. And then I kinda put that away because my work. I started working for CEI, doing a lot of apartment maintenance, and I work for the church, and I still do stuff for the church. I clean the cemetery once a month— well, twice a month now during the summer months.

	O:	That’s St. Joseph’s?



T:  Clean the church grounds at St. Joseph’s. And I bought a house, keep my house and yard clean, put a couple dollars into my truck, my car. Just bought a boat last month. So I like to get out there in the water and go fishing. Stuff like that, I enjoy that. I grew up doing that; fishing, being on the water.

O:  What does the church play over time? St. Joseph’s, it seems like it’s been very important in your life. What role does that church play over the years?





	T:	The fact that I was born on the church grounds, and I feel like that’s where I’m supposed to me. It’s been that way all my life. So I don’t there’s any big change in there, except… The church, when I was growing up, was mostly all Black.

You’ll see a few White people come in that lived right around the neighborhood, in the Tanyard, they would go to the church. You would see some of those. Now, if you went down there at eleven o’clock mass today, you would have seen all Whites and maybe a couple brown spots. Now that has changed. A lot of that, I don’t know why, but over time I would hear, to see how it progressed. But that changed a whole lot. They had a soup kitchen down there. They have a Caring and Sharing program, one of the people I grew up with started that. The Caring and Sharing Program, that have her name on the building. And it’s still being run by some different people. They give clothing, food, and stuff like that to the homeless, so that’s a pretty good deal. The hospital, which I was born in, is called the Walker Building, and that’s where the Caring and Sharing Program is at. The building next door to it, which I don’t really remember, when I was growing up, is the clinic, and they named it the Lady of Angel’s Clinic, which it was the same name as the hospital, but the building doesn’t have the history of it. They do free medical care for homeless people, or those people who do not have or cannot afford insurance and that’s a good thing. And so, I try to be a part of all that. I do maintenance. Vincent Brown is the one that administers the clinic, and he will call me in to do some maintenances here and there or whatever to fix some stuff, so I go down there and take care of that. I do the church grounds every now and then. The priest that worked there would call me to do some other





maintenance sometimes when they need something done, and I’ll take care of that for them. The church has always been a part of me, not just something that happened in my life. That’s part of me, I’m a part of that.

	O:	So you’ve been a member of the church now for many years? T:	All my life.

	O:	When you were growing up, did the church have celebrations or special events?



	T:	All kinds of stuff. They used to have lawn parties. They had all these booths and everything going on for kids and whatever, throwing darts and this and that. Just like a little fairground. And that was to raise money for the church building and whatever stuff like that was needed. Now, they do they call it Blues and the Barbecue, but that’s only one time a year, two days. On a Saturday and a Sunday afternoon, they call it the Blues and the Barbecue, and they’ve got Blues bands that get up there and play the blues, and they still have all the booths just like it was a lawn party.

	O:	On the church?



	T:	On the church grounds.



	O:	Wow, I don’t see that in a lot of churches in the south.



	T:	You come down the last Saturday and Sunday of April, next year, come to St.



Joseph’s.





	O:	Yes sir, I’m gonna take you up on that. That doesn’t sound familiar, wouldn’t see that in Gainesville. There’ a strict separation. Blues on one side, and church on the other. That’s amazing.

	T:	We had Blues and Barbecue, on the last Saturday and Sunday of April, so that’s the place to be.

	B:	It’s a big deal, like the fish fries. You wanna talk about the fish fries?



	T:	During Lent, that’s only during Lent. On Fridays, because during lent, Catholics are supposed to abstain from meat, so fish is acceptable. Seafood. We have a fish fry that you can come down and pick up a meal anywhere between eleven o’clock and two o’clock in the afternoon for your meal on Fridays. So they do that every Lent, between Ash Wednesday and Easter Sunday. Let’s see what else they got.

	B:	Do you remember anything about the gumbo sales coming up?



	T:	No…is it coming up? Oh, they do that on Sundays. On Sundays, after mass, after eleven o’clock mass, about twelve-thirty, one o’clock, they have different dishes that they will serve after that mass. Sometimes it’s gumbo, sometimes it’s sausage, sometimes it’s something else. We just had a pot luck a couple weeks ago, and they have a sign-up sheet for anybody that wants to contribute. What are you gonna prepare, you gotta sign up saying you’re gonna bring this, bring that. And then everybody eats for free ‘cause everybody brings a dish to put down there. That’s the pot luck Sunday, and they will do that every so often. It’s not a one-time thing a year.





	B:	You remember some of the cooks? Cause St. Joseph’s is really known for having some of this fabulous food associated.

	T:	Allen Gibson, he hangs out down there and does the cooking, Marvin Lewis. And Ms. Gaskins. She’s an elderly lady. She’s a mother image to me. So, ‘cause I graduated from school— I didn’t graduate with him, he left cause he wanted to join a band, we didn’t have a band. Donald Gaskins, he just died a couple months ago. She goes in there and helps them cook and stuff like that. She’s a very good lady. I don’t even know her first name. I just know Ms. Gaskins. She’s like a mother to me. So, different people. Everybody does something, and I go in on Thanksgiving because they feed the homeless on thanksgiving, or anybody who wants to come in there and eat, for that matter. Older people who don’t have someone at home doing all that cooking and whatever and stuff like that. So I go in there and eat, but I go the day before Thanksgiving, and help them carve the turkeys, and get everything prepared and set up, and come back the next day and sit down and eat. They do it in a restaurant fashion, where the people that are coming in, even the homeless, they’ll come in, sit down at the table, somebody will go and get the meal for them, bring it to them, set it down there, and stuff like that. That’s the way the Thanksgiving thing is done.

	O:	That’s a more dignified way of doing it. What has been the economic basis or foundation for the Black community in Pensacola? Has that changed over time, in terms of where people can get jobs, economic opportunities?

	T:	The economic opportunities, I believe, are there. A lot of people don’t see it. Do you know what I mean? There’s jobs, if you want one, a lot of people just don’t





see it. You see a lot of these people just sitting around on the corner and whatever stuff like that. They basically don’t wanna work. You can ride around town and you can see building, construction, going on. Almost anywhere in Pensacola. You can pass by buildings that says now hiring, with big “Now Hiring” signs over. I’ve passed by many, to take pictures, of people standing in front of a “Hiring, Now” sign with a beggar’s sign. If anybody said they can’t find a job, don’t want a job. That’s the way I look at it. I came home, made my job, after thirty years in prison. And I’m still working on it. I’m getting ready to retire. Seventy- two, I’ll be seventy-three by the end of this year.

	O:	How do you see retired life? Do you have plans? Are you gonna travel?



	T:	Nah, I’m not going anywhere. I can’t travel as long as I’m on a supervised situation. But if they ever turn that loose, I’m thinking about getting a little trailer, big enough for me and the dogs, off to California.

	O:	Winnebago Warrior. [Laughter]



	T:	My son and daughter out there in California. My son, he runs Amtrak from Los Angeles to Phoenix. My daughter, she’s in the entertainment businesses, she’s up in North Hollywood. She does stand-up comedy and stuff like that. She’s been in a few movies. That’s what she does. We don’t communicate. My son does. So everything I need to hear about her, and her daughters, my grandchildren, I have to hear from him.

	O:	Your son. Okay. That’s how a lot of families work. My father, went in Marine boot camp in 1955, and he was in the fifth Marines, but he loves to take the train.





When my wife and I lived in California, we lived in Santa Cruz, and he lives near Seattle, and he refused to fly, and he’s always take the train down. But the problem with the train from Seattle to Santa Cruz— well, you know with Amtrak, Amtrak usually doesn’t have the right of way. Usually it’s the freight trains that have the right of way, so you’d just be sitting on the train for hours, but loved it. He loves to talk to people. That’s my father. He’ll get up and just start talking to strangers. When my sister and I would travel with him, it’s really funny cause my sister will go to me and nudge me and say, “Paul, go get your father, he’s talking to stranger they’re gonna rip him, off.” He loves to take the train. So you have taken us on a real amazing odyssey. A couple more questions I was gonna ask. So St. Joseph’s, you were talking over time— since you’ve been back, the membership of the church, the composition of the members of has changed quite a bit. I guess one of the questions I have is, what role has St. Joseph’s played in terms of race relations over the years? Maybe, when you’re thinking back as a young boy, and maybe even now?

	T:	It was always mixed. But it was a bigger majority of Blacks when I was growing up, and I think that that was primarily because a lot of Whites didn’t want to participate. St. Joseph’s came about because they weren’t allowed at St.

Michael’s. So, St. Joseph’s was built specifically for the Blacks and the Creoles and whatever. But right here in the neighborhood, as far as the Tanyard is concerned, it was already mixed right there. So I the church was mixed. Over the years, from the time that I went to join the Marine Corps until I came back, I don’t know what happened in between. But now I come in, and I was surprised the first





Sunday that I went into St. Joseph’s, after I got home in 2015, and see all these lighter skinner people. But part of it, in January, like in the winter months, the snow birds come down. And a lot of snow birds live in these condos and whatever and stuff like that, near that downtown area, so the closest church for them is St. Joseph’s or St. Michael’s. Chances are, St. Michael’s is really full, so they come to St. Joseph’s because there’s not that many people, and they fill it up. They fill St. Joseph’s up. So, if you watch at certain times of the year, you’ll see a bigger crowd at St. Joseph’s, usually in the winter time, cause snow birds come down. And then when it’s time for them to go back north, then the crowd sort of dwindles down.

	O:	Okay, so St. Joseph’s has a smaller membership than St. Michael’s. T:	Right.

	O:	How far apart are those churches? I’m not familiar.



	T:	St. Michael’s is on Palafox Street, right there on the corner of – is that Romana? B:	Downtown.

	T:	Right on Palafox, I think it’s between… B:	Wright?

	T:	No, it’s not that far up. Wright Street’s way up there. It’s down, Garden, Chase, Romana. Somewhere between chase and Romana Street. And St. Joseph’s is, when you come down and hit Garden Street, and go down to Spring, and you go straight down Spring Street, and it’s right there on the corner of Government and





Spring. So, it’s probably about less than a mile apart. It’s not that far. I don’t know exactly. I can count the blocks.

	O:	But not that far away? T:	Not that far.

	O:	Okay. I’ve heard people describe the churches. This is the first time it occurred to me to ask, cause sometimes they way that the describe it, I thought these churches must have been so far apart. But with what you’re saying, they’re actually pretty close together.

	T:	Yeah. They almost look alike. They recently named St. Michaels Basilica. Cause it’s an old church and whatever. Got a lot of history between both of those churches. St. Joseph’s celebrated last year or the year before 125th anniversary. For you to come down to St. Joseph’s and look at all of those pictures, it’s like a museum. I’m in one of those pictures, I know. But you couldn’t pick me out, because it’s the whole church, and it was a confirmation for all the kids at that time, and everybody’s got the little red robes on. Boys on one side of the church, and the girls on the other side. And that’s what they did.

	B:	Do you remember, was the orphanage closed by the time you were born?



	T:	Oh yeah. I guess, I don’t know, about the time I was born. When I started school at St. Joseph’s there was no such thing as an orphanage. That was history. But that’s when it started, and it was started with the Sisters of Mercy, and Father Reilly or somebody I think was the priest. They had the boy’s orphanage. But that was nothing that I had experienced. I was born at the hospital in [19]46. And they





lost records from fire or flood, or something. I don’t know what happened, but they lost records. I tried to get birth certificates, and I couldn’t get birth certificates, they had no records. So, the birth certificate that I do have right now, I had to apply through Jacksonville, Florida. And they issued me a— what they call it? Anyway, that had to make a birth certificate. Didn’t have the original one. And there were other people. My cousin Ryan same thing. He was born in the next years, actually about eight or nine months behind me. And so during that particular time period, records got lost somewhere. Some say fire, some say flood, some say…I don’t know exactly what the problem was.

	B:	At an interview, someone gave us a birth certificate that had our hospital name on it.

	T:	Yeah, what year was that?



	B:	Can’t remember. Sorry, can’t remember, but I think it was after [19]46. T:	After [19]46? Yeah, it might have been later on.

	B:	I wanna ask you about the baseball team? Do you remember anything about the Pensacola JCs? The team that integrated— they just had that documentary about it?

	T:	No, I don’t know if the JCs was running this or not, but it was football. I lived on Government Street, probably about midways right up on here. This was supposed to be Donaldson Street, but it wasn’t. It didn’t go through there. The rest of this was an empty block. Corrine Jones Center across the street. They had football games down there every Sunday. The ambulance, the police





officers, would all be parked up there, just in case somebody got injured or whatever. But they would play football right there. Those football games were mixed. It was mixed raced. Blacks, Whites, whatever. And one side of town, Tanyard, whatever. I don’t know how teams are organized. I was small at that time. And when the big guys came over and wanna play, and I got my football out there, “Come on, can we use your football?” I said, “I gotta play.” So I would get out there among them, they would just run off past me, stuff like that. But I remember that. And that was a big thing on the weekend. On Saturdays. They had no uniforms, no equipment, just bareback football, and they were playing tackle. Every week. They were rough in there.

	O:	But you wanted to go and mix up with them!



	T:	I wanted to go mix up with them too. [Laughter]



	B:	So did you live there before the Governmental Center was built? Were you born before the Governmental Center was built? They build it downtown now. I mean, they probably with the Chappie James building— right there by city hall? All those buildings over there.

	T:	What street are you talking about? B:	On Government Spring.

	T:	Government Spring, big courthouse right there? B:	Yeah, all that, courthouse…





	T:	No, no, no. Herman Heffner and all used to be there. It used to be a little building, a trophy shop, funeral home, and all kinds of stuff. Pfeiffer Printing Company used to be across the street. B and G Grocers was across from the church on this side, and there was houses up along that. I don’t know when they built that thing.

	B:	Government building.



	T:	It was built long after I graduated from high school in [19]66. And I joined the marines, and in the time I spent away, I came back home and saw that big thing there. My grandmother used to live on Zaragossa Street right behind it. Matter of fact, right in the middle of where that city hall building’s at. That over there, that was our neighborhood.

	B:	So people in the community, how—?



	T:	Everybody’s whose houses are up and down in there. B:	Where they shotgun style houses?

	T:	Some of them. With the shotgun houses— basically farther down the street, but the houses right in that area right there, were the bigger houses. Like the big house my grandmother had. That was several of them on that street. I remember people used to rent a room.

	B:	Where they two stories?



	T:	My grandmother’s house wasn’t two stories, it was straight, but it had a big hallway going around. And her quarters was in front, and in the hallway going





around in the rooms on each side. There was a community bathroom. There was no bathroom that was in each room. Big kitchen at the back.

	B:	I wanna ask you about that, if you wanna talk about it. Do you have any memories of big house? Playing around there, or?

	T:	Yeah, I cut my foot, walking around between there, and that old lady’s house next door. Stepped on a coke bottle, almost all the way across the bottom of my foot, and I was little. I remember that. I think that was before my mom died.

	B:	Do you remember the women being around there?



	T:	That was therapeutic. That’s what that was. I didn’t know any of the women. I was very small. When my mother died, by father come and got me, that’s when I went to Government Street with my father and his mother. But I was always going to see my grandmother until she died. I might have been twelve or thirteen years old.

	B:	You remember the rent house? The owner of the rent house?



	T:	She rented that. That was her house. I remember building for my Uncle Julius a little section off from the front, and his brother, my Uncle Willie, built that for him. And then later on, he left and went to Tallahassee with his kids.

	B:	Did they rent the spaces out, or did they live there full time?



	T:	Everything was rent, anywhere from a day, a week, or a month, whatever. I never kept track of who was how long or whatever.

	B:	So it wasn’t long term residence, they just kinda rented out, I guess.





T:  Somebody might have been there a month or two, I don’t know. I never kept up with none of that. I’m too little to know that. But that’s basically what it was. And there was another houses across the street, down the street, same thing.

B:   So this was all part of the red light district?



	T:	Kind of. The ships, the sailors, they would dock down around where Hoppy’s was in the back dock, back over where the ballpark is right now.

B:   You said it was Hoppy’s?



	T:	Hoppy’s, little wharf down there. But the big wharf, where the bigger ships would come in was around a little bit farther, and those sailors would come right straight down that street, and wanna know where all the action was. I would point them down to Trader John’s.

	B:	So do you remember any nightclubs and things around the town at night?



	T:	Nah, I don’t remember any nightclubs. The little bar, corner bar here, corner bar there, that’s it.

	B:	Like a B and G.



	T:	Yeah, ‘cause when I graduated from high school, I got away from this. I wasn’t involved in all of that club hopping and stuff like that. Before I came back from the Marine Corps. I’d come home on leave sometimes and the Platinum Club up there— used to be another one on Davis, going up Davis. J.P. Newton used to have one from the Bunny Club on the boulevard. On Belmont Street. There’s buildings up on Davis, and another on Gonzales Street, somewhere along there,





but I didn’t go to those places. I stopped in once in a while but I didn’t frequent them. That wasn’t something I’d do, bar hopping.

	B:	From what you saw then, growing up, to now, do you think that all the gentrification, and just those people being displaced, had anything to do with the shift you saw in the community, in the church? For example, when those people’s houses were torn down, where did they go?

	T:	They moved. If their house was torn down on Government Street, the moved, my grandmother, my father, up on Dee and Cervantes Street. So a lot of those people just moved— I mean the city or the government—move them, gave them, equal or better housing somewhere else in the city. Most of the people just moved right up on the hill. We call it the hill when you leave past Dock Street and go up to Belmont or one of those areas. We just call that the hill. And on the east side, we call it east hill.

	B:	And if you if you go west, it’s west hill. And north hill. South hill is in the water.



	T:	They just moved people up there. They just moved. They moved my grandmother and my dad up there. I can’t remember everybody’s houses where they moved. There was another guy that lived right next door to my grandmother, and his mother, I think they moved her up on Gregory Street. I can’t remember where everybody moved, but that’s what happened.

	B:	So everybody moved to the same place, or did they disperse throughout the city?



Do know anything that could disrupt community cohesiveness that you talked about earlier? As these folks moved away, moved out.





	T:	Yeah, that kinda broke that up. Because my dad complained about, “I don’t know anybody up here.” So that kinda broke that up. But he would still see some of the old people that he knew, they might walk by the house every now and then, stop and sit on the porch and talk. They probably came together once everybody find out where everybody else lived. Still meet someone and talk to each other, whatever. Some friendships kinda faded, disappeared, because they didn’t see each other that much, like they did when they were all down there together.

	B:	When did St. Joseph’s school close?



	T:	I graduated [19]66, I think it’s the class of [19]68 was the last one. B:	Did people start going to Catholic? What happened?

	T:	I don’t know. I don’t where they went. I was in the Marine Corps. I don’t know what happened. [Laughter] But I know that a lot of them went to Catholic High School. Those who was committed to going to a Catholic school went to Catholic High. And others might have went to Washington or somewhere else. But for the most part, those that wanted to attend catholic school went to Catholic High School.

	B:	So Catholic High integrated by this time. T:	Oh yeah.

	B:	I read somewhere that Catholic high integrated before the other schools did. T:	They did.

	B:	Because of St. Joseph’s.





	T:	They did.



	O:	Did they ever have, in St. Joseph’s at the school or the church, did they ever have Black history programs, or any teaching about Black history in the school?

	T:	I don’t remember when I was going to school. But it wasn’t a Black history thing, but there were Black figures in the history that we studied, but they didn’t title it Black history.

	B:	Do you remember Marcy Micks Lewis? T:	Ms. Who?

	B:	Marcy Micks Lewis? Martin’s mother? T:	Vaguely, I remember her.

	B:	Did she teach down here or somewhere else?



	T:	She taught somewhere else, she didn’t teach at St. Joseph’s. I see Martin every Sunday.

	B:	So who were some of your teachers at St. Joseph’s? T:	Lay teachers?

	B:	Any.



	T:	Do you remember Ms. Farrow? She was a lay teacher. She used to live on Wright Street. She had a couple daughters. Sister Maurine Joseph, everybody’s favorite teacher. Especially my favorite teacher?

	O:	Why? Why was she your favorite?





	T:	We’d just sit and talk, she would notice something awry with me at different times, and she’d say, “Come on here, sit down and talk,” so I’d sit down and talk, and spill whatever was wrong. A lot of times when I was breaking up with a girlfriend and stuff like that, she see it, she want to talk to me and stuff, So, week after I left to join the marine Corps, we communicated with each other. So she left about a month before I got home, I was dying to see when she got here. And I did see her when she came back down to visit for a little while. She was old and frail, but she’s good. I used to dance with her, when we had a little school dances. She was a good teacher.

	B:	That’s the same Sister Maurine we were talking about. Up until recently, she just retired not too long ago.

	T:	She left here 2014, December. Just a month before I came home. O:	Wow, she must have taught for over fifty years.

	T:	Yeah, she’s been around for a long time. O:	That’s amazing.

	T:	Sister Margaret used to be the principal while I was there, and Sister Williams took over as principal when Sister Margaret left. And she’s one of my favorites. I can’t remember the rest of them names. Sister Francesca was my first grade teacher. She didn’t stay very long, after I started moving up in the grades, she moved on, went somewhere else. There was a nun that left the convent and joined the army, I met her later on. Years later. Her name was also Maureen.





She was a Sister Maureen. But she left the convent, joined the army, got married, stuff like that. I met her years later. In the military.

	B:	Did they all live right there in that green house, on the cotton grounds?



	T:	The one on the corner of where father’s living now, what they call the rectory, that’s where the nuns lived. The priest lived in what is now called the parish office. That was the rectory. Right there where that park is, where the little water fountain is, and the little garden, and the benches around, that used to be the convent for the Franciscan nuns that ran the hospital.

	B:	I noticed that was very decorated, and I was wondering how come it just seems so randomly beautiful.

	T:	That used to be the convent for the Franciscan nuns that ran the hospital.



	B:	Well, is there any memory you’d like to share, the most lasting memory that you have about going to church? Or just the community in general?

	T:	I’ve already told you… I don’t know. Just being part of that. Growing up and being a part of that church and all of that. The 125th anniversary, to be a part of that. That gives you a good feeling. You’re a part of something that’s important.

B:  So I’m really thankful for what Varsity’s Sunday Movie did to establish the church. I saw a picture was downtown in city hall, they had it painted on the mural, on the wall, for what you did to help form it.





	O:	Well, Mr. Turner, we’ve taken up a lot of your time, but thank you so much for coming in, and if there are no other memories you’d like to share, I guess kinda wrap it up.

	T:	I can’t think of anything else.









[End of Interview]





Transcribed by:

Rachel Hujsa



Audit-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

December 7, 2020

Final-Edited by:

Sandra Romero

January 13, 2021