AAHP 655; Scoon; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 655 Cecile Scoon

Interviewed by Samantha Crisanti, Bianka Ramirez on May 23, 2019 27 minutes | 15 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Cecile Scoon talks about her upbringing and her transfer from the Caribbean the United States at the age of fifteen. She talks about her experience attending the National Cathedral School for Girls in D.C. After, Cecile Scoon talks about what is was like pursuing a law career. She then talks about her time in Panama City as well as ger work with the League of Women’s Voters.



Keywords: [African American History; Joel Buchanan Archives, Florida, Harvard, Law, Law School, University of Florida, Black Community]



AAHP 655

Interviewee: Cecile Scoon

Interviewer: Samantha Crisanti, Bianka Ramirez Date: May 23, 2019



		R:		So this is oral, not visual. C:	Only oral.

	S:	Cool.



	C:	Ok, so I'm gonna first introduce myself. So hi, my name's Samantha Crisanti. R:	I'm Bianka Ramirez.

	C:	And we're with the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program, here in Tallahassee Community College with—

	S:	Cecile Scoon.



	C:	And could you please spell your name for the record? S:	C-E-C-I-L-E, S-C-O-O-N.

	C:	Ok, perfect. Thank you Cecile. And could you tell us your date of birth please? S:	August 8, 1959.

	C:	Okay, great, and where are you originally from?



	S:	I was born in D.C., raised in California. Parents came back to D.C., in my young adult life, we were overseas in the Caribbean.

	C:	Very cool, okay.



	R:	What part of the Caribbean? S:	Antigua.





R:    Antigua.



S:   Yeah, my father was a Peace Corps director, so we lived there for about four and a half years.

C:   Did you get involved with the Peace Corps?



S:  Only as a young person. My dad was a director, so we have volunteers in our home. He had a lot of parties to feed the young volunteers. Well, they weren’t always young, but feed them because they had very limited resources, and they would often at with the local people, so coming to our house, I just remember tons of parties. My dad would always have hamburgers and hot dogs— you know, American food for people. So.

C:   And do you have any siblings?



S:  Yes, my sister who's here at this function with me. She's younger than me, and she's a professor at FSU Film School, and my sister in-between us is Lydia*, she's in Northern Virginia, she's retired from the Census, Government. And my brother Malcolm, who's a doctor.

C:  Awesome, and then, where did you end up going to school, and what did you study? So, telling us about your career path, I guess.

S:  I left the Caribbean when I was fifteen. I came back to the states, and I went to a small private school on scholarship at the National Cathedral School for Girls in

D.C. So very academic elite school with presidents’ daughters and ambassadors’ daughters, and I was a scholarship kid, so it was a uniform girl’s school. And people





see the National Cathedral all the time. It's on national TV, whenever you hear the president speaking from the church, that is the church.

	C:	Okay, the National Cathedral.



S:  That was the girl’s school and the boy’s school. It was sort of like college before college.

	C:	Like a prep school?



S:   It was definitely a prep school. I went from there, I went to Harvard, and from there, I graduated with a degree in design, and then went to University of Virginia, Law School so I'm a lawyer, and live in Panama City.

R:   Yeah, so what motivated you to pursue law?



S:  Such a good question. When I was at Harvard, Harvard had a lot of resources. it's probably one of the richest schools in the world. And they had a lot of assets in South Africa, and when I was in college, they still had apartheid, which is by law. People had to live separate, not just Black and colored, which I would actually be considered colored, because I'm not African-Black, and I'm not White, I'm actually somewhere in the middle, so they actually had categories of people, and there were rules about where you could go, who you could marry, how much food you could have, you know, like in a public space. I mean, they allotted food by your race, it's just madness. And so, a lot of the students were just totally incensed at Harvard, this bastion of learning, intellect, "we don't care what people looked like" but they still invested in that place. We marched, and we took over at administration, and stuff like that. So, we would go to the meetings, and they would





say things like "The Board of Trustees and this corporation" and we were like they're talking another language, that’s not right. So that's when I decided I'm gonna learn that language, and they're never gonna be able to try to talk to me legally and act like I don't understand, and that's what motivated me to go to law school.

C:  And then, when you were in law school, as someone that wanted to go to law school, what kind of motivated your career path, within what field of law you wanted to pursue?

S:  It was sort of an intention of that, and my background actually goes together with what I do now. My father was born in the Caribbean, so I had a very different life, [inaudible 04:38] and was a lawyer also. And was all about fairness and opportunity, and the promise of America, he would always talk to us about these things. My mother was from Virginia, but growing up in the Caribbean, I didn't learn American history. I was learning European history, and I knew about the Civil Rights Movement generally in the states, and knew slavery existed in the Caribbean and in America, I knew that. But I really hadn't placed my family in it cause I wasn’t around uncles and aunties that asked them anything. So when I came back to the states, I knew European history, and all that history but I just never got down to the nitty gritty of what was going on during the Civil Rights Movement in our country until I got to Harvard, and my freshman year, African- American class, history class, and my professor, a White professor teaching us African American history, I sat there thinking "this is outrageous, sitting at the back of the class, different treatment" you know, that's what we were arguing about in





South Africa, right? I said to myself "I'm so glad my parents never had to do that," and then, somehow, the fog lifted, light bulbs started blinking and sputtering out, and I realized my parents had gone all the way through it. They were young people through the whole thing. They had never mentioned any of it to me, not a word. So I've been going around in my own little bubble, thinking that my family had been immune, and that my grandparents' generation, but I didn't know, had been mistreated and disrespected, and when I kinda realized they had gone through that, I was mortified and I was also hugely angry. I was like you denied me my history. I'm going around thinking everybody's good, and not that you can blame individuals, but I needed - I still needed the history. So it was a big challenge, and their answer was "we loved you and we saw that you were gifted, and we didn't want you to be afraid or angry with the people you were gonna associate with," cause I was you know, in school, and all this, and it seemed like I was gonna end up at a place like Harvard, and those were places I had not been allowed to go. So, that was their decision, I'm not sure I agree with it, but that's what they were doing. In the Caribbean, he had a whole other story. He came to the States, he was eighteen. He had never seen any of that either, but he got here right at the time when you had to sit at the back of the bus. His whole thing was "that's what they said," so at that point, I just kind of thought "wow, myself and everybody my age, we had all benefitted off the backs of people we don't know that are living in our lives." We're having Christian Harvard, you know, this is like the golden Willy Wonka key to the rest of the world, and really when you go to places like Harvard, that is the case. You can completely ensconce yourself away from any of the





normal concerns of the rest of the world because you're welcomed into the elite societies, and you get a big paycheck, and you can buy your comfort into things. So, you don't really have to deal with the reality of your gender, sometimes, or your race, or people that might not like you. And at that point, I was like oh, gee. I will never walk away from that history; I will never not work for this. So then, I thought "You need to become a lawyer, and you need to become a civil rights lawyer." Myself and everybody my age have directly benefitted from people who never reaped the benefits, who walked and were [inaudible 00:08:40] damaged their eyes, you know, locked in jail for fifty days, and all the efforts at trying to maintain your dignity and humanity through the whole thing, through the transatlantic passage, through being shackled to each other on a ship, at the bottom of the ship. You're a woman, raped whenever - you know, all the indignities, all that. I was like "You are not gonna turn your back on that history." So, actually, my life was kinda like laid out for me. You know, I had the tool, I had loving parents who believed in me. I had very good academic opportunities, and so that's what I've been doing. I'm a civil rights lawyer, and actually, most of my clients are White. So civil rights, what I do actually, is to serve and protect the classes. It started with women and Blacks, and the reason for that, you may well know already is because the United States was founded on intentional discrimination of those two groups. So those two groups, finally, were elevated. Hm, if we see anything wrong going in the workplace, we're gonna have strict scrutiny, we're look carefully at that, the EOC, the administrative agencies were developed to kinda look carefully, to kinda give a person a chance. So, that's the kind of work that I do, but over time, you know,





other people say we're also discriminated, like the Irish in Boston. They were treated like rats. It was hard for me to get my mind around it when people look exactly the same, and you still hate each other, but like, the English and the Irish, and these different groups. And of course, the Chinese and the Japanese were in- turn. And it was just these groups that end up saying "me too." No group exactly like women and Blacks, because they were never written into stone, into the Constitution, where it was revered by many. It was a sacrifice, you know. We're gonna give up these classes of people to move other people into equality. So, ethnicity, nationality, religion, age, disability are the additional to race and gender. So that's what I do. People come to my office, and they say this unfortunate thing is going on, I've trained all these other people who look like this, and I look like that, and I'm much better than them, but I'm not getting the raise, and that's unfortunate that it goes on, and I had to fend off advances for them to try to get a job. Sometimes people see them as vulnerable, unmarried with children, you know, things like that. So that's kinda— the sexual harassment, the Me Too movement, I do that. I've had cases where someone's Jewish, and they don't like it. Someone's a different kind of a Christian, you know. Someone, they think, is too old, or you're a woman, not a man. Or I've had White people be mistreated by White people, not as many, but it does happen. So those are the kind of things that I do, so I actually have a demanding and sometimes very lonely existence because you have to get so much into the books, and in the case load, and in a typical case, I might depose the deposition ten to fifteen people, which is a lot of commitment. I'm like in exam week like every other month, because there's always a brief, or a motion, or a





hearing, or a trial, or a deposition or something where I'm going head to head, and it doesn’t leave time for me to allow the gag and hang out. But I guess I can say I have not had one minute of boredom; I've not had one minute of why did I do this? I've not had one minute of I've given my life to something that doesn't matter. So, when I kinda balance it out, it seems a little bit ahead. I mean, I still have to struggle like all of us do with management, and elevating friends, and giving them the proper treatment. Family, you know. Weight, exercise, all the things that reach the matter - the first world problems, you know. First world problems, “Where's my clean water? Where's my chicken leg,” you know?

[laughing]



S:  First world problems, I still have them. But in terms of my work, it's been very rewarding.

	R:	Um, I was just wondering what brought you to Panama City.



S:  Oh, I had a scholarship to attend college. A Harvard, I kicked off ROTC at the same time, and since they put it back on in the last ten years, but back then, thirty-odd some years ago, it was not there. So, I cross-registered at MIT. Massachusetts Institute of Technology. So, I would go there for my training, and they offered me a full-ride, and a stipend. Harvard offered me a full ride also, but not the stipend, and my parents would have to pay more money, and there was four of us. Oh, there's two little girls behind me, so I just said for a little more money, sure. So, I got orders that came down to Tindall, in Panama City, and I was an Assistant Staff to an advocate, so the first five years of my training, I was active duty jag.





C:  That's really cool. Then, I had a question. So, for your legal career, did you end up opening your own firm in Panama then? Like right-off the bat -

S:   Yes, not right off the bat. The area that I practice in is very rare. There's actually very few of us who are in private practice, like a handful in every state. Like less than a hundred, probably. And so, in Panama City, my husband, who's my classmate and a lawyer also was working for a small firm, and I end up - I came off active duty, joining them working part-time. At that point, I had been in the military for five years, I was pregnant, expecting a child, so I was just working part- time, and I know they wanted me - well, my husband's partner was very well-known divorce lawyer. He did the Tiger Woods divorce -

C:   Wow. Oh my god.



S:  So, he said "I'll teach you everything, and you can be a really strong divorce lawyer too," so this is me, like twenty-nine, thirty; pretty young. It's so funny. It's just like that just didn't motivate me. Like, yes I know divorce is so important, and rebuilding lives, and I've certainly done a lot of divorces, usually the woman, and trying to get her say and taking care of the kid. Stop him beating her, or taking the money, or whatever problem often times the lesser powerful person in the relationship- S: I've done that, and it means a lot to me. But I just wasn't - that wasn't why I went to law school. So, I just persisted in developing this practice. There was no other civil rights lawyers in the town for me to even talk to. So, I had to buy expensive books and learn, and I would call the NAACP, and I'd sent them my complaint: "is this right?" Like, yeah that looks good. I kinda learned the hard way a lot of things, because there was no mentors in the kind of work that I was doing.





	C:	Okay, that's really cool.



R:  Does that speak to, I guess, I don't know how to describe it, the lack of justice in Florida or other states? Because you kinda had to pursue private practice because there were no others, like, no mentors you could look up to, does that make sense?

S:  Yeah. Florida is a really funny place for gender, and possibly race. But I think more gender. For example, when I was at Harvard, we were literally told "I was your age" and I was eighteen, twenty-two, whatever. They would look at the women, and they'd say you're just like the men, you can out of childbirth, you don't worry about marriage, have babies in your forties because they don't know. They hadn't really looked at the science. They didn't have studies to actually show your fertility would last, and it would not be a problem. They just thought, as we often think, Western Medicine can solve everything. And that's not true. Women's fertility diminishes greatly at thirty-five, on that bridge and goes [sound effect] way down. So, when you wait longer, you have more problems and more difficulties. [inaudible 00:17:20] baby. It's just like - and a lot of my peers followed the advice to their detriment, and we're childless. And they wanted children. They've been told at Harvard, we was being told around the whole nation. So, anyway, how did I get there? So yeah, so women. We were very few living examples of married women who had children, who were academics or who had competitive jobs. Funneling that back into trying to do my own thing, um, there was not very many examples for women at all. The examples that were put before me, or that I saw, were women who had given up everything to try to be a partner in a mega firm, and that's when women were actually dressing like men. You might see pictures of women with like a little tie





around their necks, not like a bowtie bowtie, but a little bow and a tie. It was replicating men's pin-striped suits, which those could be beautiful too, but that was like the uniform. You were supposed to be as much like a man as possible. Um, and without being too pushy, cause then you'd be called something else, right? But that was sort of the situation. If you weren't in that realm, there wasn’t a whole lot of other paradigms for me to follow. Yes, I was sort of brave to do what I did, but I didn't really have a lot of examples cause my lawyers either became judges, they became clerks, they were general counsel in companies, or they were those go-get-ems who would give up everything to be partners. It wasn't this vast variety, so I was like - unless I was gonna do one of those, then I was kinda like out on my own. So, when you sort of have a blank sheet, what do you do? Well, it was easy for me, I would do what I wanted to do. I went to law school. I think I've held on to my dreams so tightly because I woke up to my dreams so late. Like a lot of the kids "I wanna be a doctor" since they were seven, and I was going "Du, du, du." At nineteen, I was like "Oh," that's kinda old to get that kind of historical reference point, and because I realized that the cocoon I'd been in off the backs of others' efforts, it had just totally solidified my drive.

C:   So, we don't wanna go on for too long, but I just wanna bring it back to what you said when we were in the other room about your work with the League of Women's Voters because you called in John Nelson, or when you were calling the representative that was sitting in the back of the room.

S;    Oh, yeah. The commissioner.





C:  Commissioner. Commissioner Richardson. And you made a point to say, you know, you need to be more careful with the language that you're using - accessible language. I just would like if you could just elaborate on that. Why you said that, and just your work with the League of Women's Voters.

S:  I was trying to - I heard him saying we need to do all these things, and I'm not in a position where I've ever had to earn anybody's favor. You know, like votes and things like that. I am in a leadership role with the League, I run votes that way. I'm the first Vice President for the state. But the way I do my business is, I just show my passion. I show my hard work, I show my commitment. I show up. I got up at 5:30 to be here.

C:   I'm so glad that you did.



S:  Yeah, because that's how I show you who I am. So, if you don't mind someone who's rather direct, then, you'll get along with me. But, you know, I'm very transparent. What you see is what you get, and there's no hidden anything. I'm a hard worker. So, I was just wanting Mr. Richardson to not talk in such oblique language, because my experience with the League, what I do, I just go into our communities, talking to young people about directness. They kinda relate to me cause I'm kinda like direct. Maybe a little bit, got sharp edges, I don't know. It's my northern way about me. Just my drive cause of my work. But I find that people respond to directness, and when you're oblique, they're like "huh? did you even understand what he said?" He was just covering it up in so much softness that I felt like he, when he was trying to reach out to community, he was referring to the Black communities, I was trying to listen with those ears, and I'm like would I even





hear that he cares about me? Would I even hear about him trying to do things? Probably not. He brought up, and he's living here and he's living the life, but people don’t look at that. Young people who are hustling, make decisions, "I need you to connect with me. I need you to represent me. I need you to hold ideals that I hold" So I was trying to share with him, tighten it up. Be more direct. Somebody else told me afterwards that he had done some good things like supporting Ban the Box, which is saying you don't have to mark for where you're a felon or not. You get the interview, and then, later on, they might check into it, but at least they get to see the person versus just never see the person, just blocked from the beginning. And that is really good. He could’ve said that to me. I've done this. But I think he's so accustomed to having to speak to that issue directly that he wasn’t able to understand what I was saying. I went to him and explained afterwards, just you know, I'm trying to help you so people can peg you for what you’re doing and support you, but if you’re talking in platitudes, it’s hard to hear that.

R:  Makes sense. Well, is there anything you like to say that maybe - S:   I’ve probably blurted it all out -

C:  No, it wasn’t blurting, we will ask you a million more questions, so thank you so much.

S:  Yeah, I guess I would just urge anybody to follow your heart, to follow your passion. You have to be smart, you have to be willing to take that financial hit, and honestly at that point when I decided to go, I always wanted to do this, and I would’ve done





it no matter what, but to be fair, I had a husband who is a lawyer and was doing well, and our joke throughout marriage has been "you do money, I do justice"

	C:	Yes, I love that.



S:  So, I know that I've had friends who didn’t marry or are on their own or that thing. Yeah, I think I would’ve done the same thing. I might've had a little bit of time, and sometimes I do very well financially, sometimes I pay my husband, but it’s not all the time. Of course, but - not of course, but being the woman, I was the one that had the babies and worked part time and all, so you have to make these little adjustments, or big adjustments, but I do urge. I do urge anybody your age to listen to that compelling thing in your heart, because when you do that kind of work - like, right now the work I do for the League, it doesn’t even feel like work. I have to, like, schedule myself to do my work, work. Which I still love to do, and then my League work because right now we're trying to enfranchise people who literally were shunned like they had leprosy for hundreds of years. It’s so, like, mind-blowing that our generation could be the one that is working on actually stopping this nonsense, and opening peoples' minds and hearts, and getting them back into society is so powerful. you can just get going, so I just say to people do follow your heart, do follow your passion, and have a practical plan. Like let's say you might be doing that, but maybe you have to wait tables. You know, maybe you have to be the person that goes to New York to be a star, or LA to be a film person. You’re doing a sacrifice for what you want, but if you live that dream and you sort of plan it, then as you move on through life, you can say I've stuck with it or have had this time with it, and I'm doing something else, but I just think that's so compelling and





approaching sixty myself, I find a lot of people who have spent their lives doing things that they didn’t care about, and now the last five to ten years, they’re completely stopping what they didn’t like, and they’re trying to get to something that they liked, and I don’t think our life has to be that Black and White. "I just need to pay the bills" well, you know, sometimes that's respectful and that's valid, but if you have choices, there's sometimes people have choices. There's times where you don't. You get a situation, you gotta do the factory job, and put in your time. That's respectful, that's real. I'm not saying anything about that, but I'm saying for those of us who have the ability to make a choice, then I urge people to listen to that inner voice, and follow that passion because when you get into that field of work, it doesn’t even feel like work. They’re paying you to do things you would do for free. So, that’s my type.

C:   Thank you.



R: Thank you so much. [End of Interview]

Transcribed by:   Isabella Oliver

Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, January 26, 2021 Final-Edited by:  Sandra Romero, February 2, 2021