AAHP 787; Alexander; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 787 David Alexander 2-28-2020

Interviewed by Olivia La Fuente and Deon Winchester on February 28, 2020 66 minutes | 34 pages



Abstract: Born in Pensacola, Florida in 1960, David Alexander went on to serve as his hometown’s first African American police chief. In this interview, he begins by describing his childhood and education in Pensacola. He reflects on his early experiences with racism, as well as his “relationships with people that countered the negativity.” He recounts the Escambia High School race riot in 1976, at which time he was a sophomore. He details the events of the riot he witnessed, including white people throwing rocks at black students, the arrival of the National Guard, and use of teargas on campus. Later, he points out that his white class president argued to the school board against allowing the Klu Klux Klan to hold a rally at Escambia High School, causing the school board to deny the permit—although the city government provided a permit for the rally to be held downtown. Alexander goes on to describe his professional life, including his hiring by the Pensacola Police Department in 1983. He describes the series of events in his career that led him to become Pensacola’s first black police chief, as well as his style of leadership and his approach to repairing the relationship between the police and Black communities. Additionally, he explains the role of faith throughout his career. At the time of this interview, Alexander was running for Sheriff of Escambia County.





Keywords: [African American history; Escambia County; Jim Crow; Pensacola, Florida; police; race riot]



AAHP 787

Interviewee: David Alexander

Interviewers: Olivia La Fuente, Deon Winchester Date: February 28, 2020



	L:	Alright, so my name is Olivia La Fuente. I’m here with— W:	Deon Winchester.

	L:	And we are interviewing— A:	David Alexander III.

	L:	At the West Florida Regional Library in Pensacola. Today is February 28th, 2020.



Thank you for joining me today.



	A:	Thank you for having me. W:	Indeed.

	L:	So could we start with your full name and where you were born?



	A:	My name is David Alexander III. I was born here in Pensacola at the Our Lady of Angels Hospital— well it’s a clinic.

	L:	What day?



	A:	February 16, 1960.



	L:	Have you always lived in Pensacola?



	A:	Pretty much all my life this has been my primary residence. L:	And your parents, did they always live in Pensacola?

	A:	My dad was born in Wilcox County, Alabama. So from Alberta to Alabama to Huntington, West Virginia, he kinda— throughout his childhood between those





three places that where he was. My mom was born in Detroit, Michigan in a community called Inkster, and she moved down here shortly after her father was killed. And she moved down here and she pretty much, I guess from a teenager, early young adult, she been here since.

	L:	And what were their occupations?



A:  My dad was a factory worker over in Santa Rosa County, American [inaudible 00:01:42], and my mom worked for the Escambia County School District as a custodial worker. And they both retired from those jobs.

	W:	What was life growing up? What were some of your earliest memories as a child?

	A:	Okay. When I was born, we were living in Attic’s Court, which is a public housing complex. And we moved several times on the west side in that area of town, because our parents were primarily renting. My dad had a vision of building a house for his family. So he built a small townhouse out in Warrington on Brigadier Street, which is between Gulf Beach Highway and Patton Drive. And it actually sits between the two Navy bases, Coryville Base and Pensacola NAS. So growing up, from about five or six—I guess, about five—we were just kinda used to seeing the F-14s and Blue Angels and all those different types of aircrafts that were. We entered the public school. I started out in private school, and in [19]66, [19]67 is when they began to integrate schools. So we went to Navy Point Elementary School, which is out on Gulf Beach Highway right there, we went. And I went from there to Warrington Elementary, and I went to





Warrington Elementary for two years. I spent a year at Navy Point, and then fifth grade I was actually in Huntington, West Virginia, ‘cause my great uncle had been begging my dad to bring me up there and let me stay with him for a while. So I went up there for a year, and I was actually there the year that the Marshall football team airplane crashed. It was like two weeks after I had come in on that same flight. The same airport. ‘Cause it was big in the news just about every day. There was a lot of pregnant women that were coaches’ wives and girlfriends that were killed in that crash. So to see it later on become a movie, I was like, “Wow, that was bigger than I thought it was.” But throughout my childhood in Pensacola, my parents were Christian parents. So they kinda kept us away from a lot of things that happened and probably traumatic impact that it could have had on us. I was oldest of five siblings.

	L:	What kinds of things?



	A:	Well, I remember hearing about the Kennedy assassinations, Dr. Martin Luther King. I heard it just through conversation between adults. And really, I wasn’t supposed to be listening to that, because if they had known I was listening, I would’ve got chastised for that. You just didn’t indulge yourself in adult conversations. That was disrespectful. But growing up in Warrington and periodically driving into town, ‘cause my dad, by him being a minister, we went to church all the time. So we were in town and out of town. We travelled quite a bit. So you got a chance to see people from different places and things. And I do remember being in Brownsville, which later on I found out Ted Bundy was captured in Brownsville.





	L:	Yeah.



	A:	But I remember being at a grocery store, and I really didn’t know what racism was.

	L:	How old were you?



	A:	I was about five or six. I really didn’t know what it was. And we were at a grocery store, and during that time, I know why we didn’t get to go in the grocery store, because it just was in the middle of some of the peak things that were happening in the Civil Rights Movement, and it just wouldn’t have been a good idea for us to go in, especially at that time. It was three of us, because my two youngest siblings had not been born yet. So it wouldn’t have been a good idea for us to go in, but we didn’t know. We were just kids. So we were sitting outside, and of course, the windows were rolled down, because back then, the cars didn’t come with air conditioning. So there was a car next to us, and of course, anytime kids see cars with other kids in it, you look and kids wave at you and you wave at them. So this little girl, she was at the window waving at us, and of course, we waved back. And then she said, “Hello there, niggers.” And I was like, “Woah.” So my dad, of course, being a minister, his thought was that that was Satan using this little girl to spread hate. And I mean, that’s something she learned. Her dad was in the car, never said anything to her. But it was the way my dad responded. He didn’t respond to her, but I knew something was wrong, and I just couldn’t figure it out, because I didn’t know what that meant. My dad told us to sit back. He says, “Roll the windows up.” And I was like, “Woah, something just went”—you know. So throughout my childhood, I would always see the contrast





between people who had that racial prejudice versus people who didn’t. And I can tell you my childhood was filled with themes of relationships with people that countered the negativity. When I got old enough to know what racism was all about, I said, “Wow.” That was critical to me, because going through middle school, I wound up going to Warrington Middle School, and I still really hadn’t seen how bad racism could play out. So while at Warrington Middle School, the initial race riot that took place at Escambia High School happened that year. And our teachers—you know, as kids sometimes you have teachers, you say, “Oh, she’s just mean,” or, “Oh, he so hateful.” They have their own personalities. So it really can have nothing to do with you, but that’s just their personality and how they would come across to students. But for the most part I felt like the teachers that we had there were pretty fair teachers. And I looked back and I said, “Wow,” because you had like clusters. You had the same teachers and those teachers are the ones you saw every day. So it was a very well diverse mixture of teachers in my cluster, and they told us all to get on the floor, and they closed the blinds and let the blinds down. And that’s what kind of let me know how serious this was, because I really didn’t know. I knew there was a big fight, and of course, as kids, you kind of run to fights and see who’s gonna win who’s gonna lose. But then I realized it was a serious thing. And then I heard later on some of the things that had happened, and so every day after that it was like a concern for your teachers, especially if they were gonna take you out. My most favorite teachers in middle school was the one that would take you out and we would have class outside under a big tree or something. I thought that was awesome,





‘cause I’m just an outdoors person. So I thought that was really cool, but when a teacher kinda got wind that there might be some problems or they had had problems with older students coming onto campus, because the campus was not fenced in. When the Edgewater community, and it’s a predominantly White neighborhood, so those kids could come through there. And it was just a lot of stuff that could spill in on our campus and we could be in danger and not really know it. So going through that, that kind of gave me a precursor of— and not knowing or calling it racism. My dad would just say, “There are people that’s gonna treat you bad because of the color of your skin.” And of course, I can remember in the background hearing Martin Luther King’s sermons on the radio, seeing him on the TV when we finally got a TV, ‘cause we didn’t have a TV initially. But I really didn’t know till later on I got to the high school level, really how serious this was. And that’s in 1976, when they had the second race riot at Escambia. I was a sophomore there then, and we were on double session. But even then, like I said, there was a contrast of relationship, because there were White students, Asian students, as well as Black students I grew up with in the neighborhood and just going through public schools I remember them. So we always kinda maintained very good relationships, friendships. So when we got to Escambia High School and this big race riot breaks out, ‘cause there were some things that led up to it. There were. And I don’t know all of this stuff to be factual, but there were incidents where Black kids got jumped on going home from school, White kids got jumped on going home from school. So this stuff started to build. And then one day in February in 1976, the second race riot takes place.





And so now, I’m looking at a school divided. It’s people you’ve been talking to and pretty much being friends with pretty much all of your childhood, and all the sudden you at the opposite ends of an issue, and you’re not really understanding what is the really root cause of this. But then I saw, I remember, this Gulf Gas Station truck backed up with a bed full of rocks, and they were throwing these rocks at the Black kids in the school. So I say, “Ooh, this is serious.” And during that day, the National Guards were flown in. So there was tear gas all over the place, and we had heard about several students had been shot. So now I’m like, “Oh my God.” So the last thing I wanted was my dad, which I know my dad would come and get me if he even thought I was in—So I called him. I wasn’t in, I want to say, one of the guidance counselors’ office, and I called his job and told him that we were getting ready to go home on a bus, so don’t come get me, ‘cause what I was seeing is there was parents being attacked as they tried to get in to get their kids. So I don’t want anything to happen to my dad. It was just a horrible thing to experience, and I can only imagine some of the kids that probably weren’t in a position to process it right, it just kinda left ‘em traumatized and mentally scarred for the rest of their life. So that kind of thing, I think, with my dad kinda keeping us on the spiritual side attuned to the war between good and evil, there were a lot of good White kids—that stood up for us. I’ll never forget our class president. He went before the school board, because the Ku Klux Klan had petitioned the school board to get a permit to hold a Klan rally in our stadium.

And this is around our school nicknamed mascot, which was Rebels, and the Confederate flag. So he stood up and said, “We don’t need that at our school.”





Some of this stuff we didn’t know he had actually done until after it was done. So the district declined, and the City Council approved the permit. So they did a parade right down Palafox Street right downtown. So it was one of those things that then it really wasn’t that big of a deal to me, because for the most part I had some security in the environment that I was in. My parents didn’t leave us a lot. Our neighborhood was basically racially mixed. So it was not unusual for us. So my brother or sister’s friends to come over to the house and eat with us and vice versa. So we had those experiences, those encounters, that kinda counteracted the extreme racial incidents that some people may have experienced. So when I got to the race riot at Escambia, I was like, “Whew, this is something. This is serious.” And what that did is that kinda helped me really develop this ability to learn how to judge people based on character and not based on skin color, because it was easy to fall into that, but like I said, being between the two bases. I loved basketball, and when I got to a certain age, a lot of the young enlisted Navy personnel—and I look at it now, they were just kids themselves. So when you wanted to go on the base and you need somebody to sign you on, because my dad was not military. So we didn’t have dependent ID’s and stuff like that where we could get on. So they would sign you on, and you just, “No, I won’t do anything to get you in trouble, ‘cause I want you to sign me on again.” So I got exposed to young people from all over the world, because they would come to those two bases. It gave me that kind of exposure. So it gave me a chance to see how through contact, positive interaction with other people—that everybody’s not the same. The reason why I brought that up, because nowadays, when you





look at Pensacola, Pensacola has a heavy cloud of racism and racial practices that it just hasn’t dealt with. And I think when you look at people of good will and those people allowed to generate a narrative that really will get others beyond that, a lot of times, that’s hampered. So even today with all the growth and development, I love Pensacola, but that’s the part I don’t like. And it’s because sometime it’s swept under the rug, sometime it’s kind of polarized, until you think it has outlived folks who would know the truth. But we’ve had some incidents and that riot was in conjunction with some other things that went on regarding police and Black communities. The Fleeing Felon Law was used as justification for a lot of shootings that really would’ve been unjustified when you look at it. So when we went into this thing, being in law enforcement, ‘cause in 1983, I became an employee of Pensacola Police Department. Having all of this prior data in the backdrop, it gave me a very panoramic view of Pensacola from different—I had a lot of—I still have a lot of—great memories. But there are also somethings that I said, “Okay, you want to make sure that you don’t allow this to reoccur.” So even in law enforcement, I really tried to bridge those relationships between communities of color and law enforcement, because we were allowing law enforcement, just like anybody else. It’s not like I can change my skin color just because I’m a police officer. I go home, I paid bills, I take care of my family just like anybody else. So I would have to deal with all the social ills. And sometimes you see that people don’t know you outside of uniform and so they respond to you differently. And you’d say, “Hmm. I wonder if he knew who I was, or if he took notice of who he was talking to that he would have changed that.” And there





were certain instances where it did. Overall, Pensacola’s a good place to live. It’s just that sometimes those little issues and when they are hidden in systemic processes, you don’t get to access those opportunities like anybody else. My son is getting his PhD in engineering, but he will never be able to come back here and earn a living. He may come back here and retire. But he come out of public school system. He did exceptionally well both athletic and academically, but let’s face it. It’s a challenge when you are trying to get in these top positions and there are some old ways of doing things that create barriers. So that kind of led to where I am today. I’m going up for position of sheriff in Escambia County, and it’s because I believe that more people want what would be best, and that’s a unified Escambia County as opposed to a divisible. So fairness, integrity, professionalism, accountability are the other things that really solidifies my platform. I know I probably went on to that question.

	W:	No, no. You were great. L:	You gave us a lot.

	W:	You know, you talked about, your father was a minister. And you talked about the positive experiences you had in the community that countered the negative experience you had, but one thing I heard, what about your faith? You talked about some of the values and how all of these things helped shape your character, how it helps you as an officer, as a judge of character. How did your faith play a part in shaping who you are?

	A:	Well, up until about 1998, I ran away from faith.





	W:	You did?



	A:	Because I just felt, as a child, it was too restrictive. I had to sneak and listen to the radio so I could listen to American top forties. If I got caught doing that, man, I would get chastised. Being conservative Christians, as they were, we were held accountable, which later on it became a great value to me, because a liar—no matter how flamboyant their words might be—a liar’s still a liar. An untrustworthy person is still an untrustworthy person. I left Pensacola and went to Morehouse College in Atlanta, which was like going from a five miles an hour speed zone to fifty-five miles an hour. Life took off real fast, and I was exposed to a lot of things that you just learned the hard way. Of course, I struggled in school, and that may have something to do with the issue of the disruption that the riot caused. Up until the riot, I was really failing in school, and after the riot, I had a Black teacher said to me, she said, “If you don’t change, you’re gonna be just like the rest of these boys around here. You’re gonna in and out of jail. You’ll probably spend the rest of your life in prison.” And she really made me mad when she said that, but it challenged me. It provoked me to think about what I was doing, the decisions I was making. ‘Cause in [19]76 my mom and dad went through a divorce. So my concept of family was being challenged, because I loved my parents equally, and they were. And back then, I just don’t know how the judges looked at custody issues. Whereas they weren’t having knockdown drag outs, but it was a lot of pressure on the kids to decide who they wanted to go and stay with. That was kind of crazy for me. So I skipped school and I did a lot of things that probably you’re just trying to find a way to deal with it or have someone





explain it to you. So my high school basketball coach, which is the Deputy Superintendent of the school district, Norm Ross, he sat down and really kinda broke down what divorce was all about, and he explained to me, he says, “You like these little girls around here. Well, what if you told one of ‘em that you would love ‘em forever and then the next year just something happened or you just don’t like her anymore?” He says, “Then y’all gonna split up.” He says, “Divorce is the same way, with a marriage.” He said, “You can come to the point where you just can’t get along and the best thing for y’all to do—or one may decide the best thing for them to do—is to get out of this relationship. And they don’t ask you your opinion or a lot of times it’s not considered how it’s gonna affect you. It’s a decision adults make.” So when he said that it kinda helped me process that. So of course, that put a lot of strain on me when I went off to college, ‘cause I was always trying to spend equal time with both parents and they were wanting to have that quality time with me especially when I was coming back and forth from college. So I went through a lot of frustrating moments where I acted according to some of the things that were going on in society, but then, like I said, it all culminated to the fact that once you started to add up all the failures, all the bad decisions you made, all the things you thought you had figured out but you figured ;em wrong, then it kinda got you ready to be committed to a life of faith.

So once I did that I had already got married and both my son and my daughter. I have two children. They’re five years apart. I call ‘em “March Madness babies,” because they were born in December.

	W:	Math.





	A:	I would like to watch. I said, “How in the world could I get a woman pregnant watching March Madness?” ‘Cause you’re talking about college basketball—I was glued to the TV. There was definitely some national championships both times, five years apart, that I probably couldn’t tell you who won the national championship, but I won. I had two beautiful kids. And they’re smart kids. But after 1998, I think that’s really where I started to embrace the importance of being a person that’s trustworthy. Divorce is high in law enforcement. So my wife and I were having some challenges. So I wanted to keep my family together, because first of all, I don’t like when statistics tells me what’s gonna happen to me.

	W:	Yes, sir.



	A:	And Mrs. Morris, who was my earth science teacher, became a principal of the school district—when she said, “You’re gonna end up just like the rest of them,” she pretty much said, “You gonna be a statistic.” And what I didn’t realize, if you wanna really unnerve me or provoke me to do something and really work extra hard, start throwing a statistic at me and tell me because who I am and what background I come out of that’s what’s gonna happen to me. So I was really challenged to really start to embrace some real, because I wanted to always, and I think for the most part in my younger part of my career, I was a trusted officer, I was fair to people, and they knew that. But as I rose up and I became a sergeant, there was so much temptation to do things, and you know the little White lies and things like that’s fine or don’t worry about this. And those things became even stronger and more challenging. So I was like, “Nah, I can’t go out like that,” because one of the things I learned on the streets is that if you ever turn corrupt,





no matter what you doing, somebody will always have something to hang over your head. And of course, you’ve always heard about corrupt officers going into law enforcement. It’s like, “Woah, are you gonna be a corrupt officer?” Money on the take. And I remember in college they would talk about people and police officers in their communities, they were taking money and stuff like that. So I was like, “No, can’t be that.” So I really just had got pushed to the point where I was ready to accept the idea or the concept of being a faith-driven person. So when I did that, of course, it really did kind of help save my marriage, because the day before, I was at a wedding. One of my guys, I was a training officer and a good friend, I was the best man at his wedding, and I was on the verge of making a terrible mistake. And we had actually got in a real bad argument about it, and man, I was so tired I went to sleep. And the next day, I said, “Man, I gotta go to church after all the stuff I went through yesterday.” Then, the initial measure of faith is build upon by the things you experience, the challenges to stay faithful to God, stay faithful to your marriage, stay faithful to being a father, both of a daughter and a son. So those things became even more pressing, and so faith was a motivating factor and also the glue that kept me together when I was going through a lot of stuff. And as I begin to rise through the ranks, of course, I made Sergeant when I was told it was only gonna be one Black sergeant made. And I just felt like in my heart that the chief that was there, I felt like he was a man that would make—if he could make a decision and do something good, he would.

Sometimes, you got to work within the circumstances you’re given. So that year, he made four sergeants, and two of them were Black and two of them were





White. And so one of the guys that was—I think he might of been a lieutenant at the time—he says, “That’s unheard of. He’s never done anything like that before.” And that’s when I began to start thinking about faith, because faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Of course, when you’re preparing for the test, a lot of times, people say, “Well, you’re wasting your time, because you’re not the one they want anyway.” And so you saw little implications of that. I remember one of the ladies and guys that were super officers, they trained us well. They were also competing for those supervisor positions, and they were being number one and number two and constantly skipped over. And so you start to see the glass ceiling effect, and you say, “well.” But I’ve always remained hopeful, and that’s one of the things, and like I said, I committed to faith. It became a stronger drive, and so I was able to stay focused regardless of issues and circumstances. So I began the champion community policing. And so now I’m being put in positions that are really, for the most part, might be desirable by others in my ranks. But it’s almost like you’re being set up to fail. But then who you are begins to work even more for you. So I was able to build a lot of strong relationships through the diverse population throughout the city of Pensacola. And so people would say stuff like, “Man, you gonna make chief one day.” And I was like, “Okay, yeah, that’s very nice of you,” and, “Okay, thank you very much. You’re so kind.” It’s like I say, the faith just reassures you that there are always gonna be people out there, and God sends angels. The Bible says that His angels, the angels and all, they camp around those who love him and fear him. So I really believe that God has put people in my life, and even





at the age of fourteen, there was a guy that I learned later on to be the same guy. I met him at a funeral, and he approached me—red-headed White guy—and he says, “What’s your name?” He says, “My name is Jim. What’s your name?” I says, “My name is David.” And he says, “How old are you, David?” I says, “I’m fourteen.” He says, “Oh, man, you’ll be old enough to get your learner’s permit next year.” He says, “Have you started studying?” I mean, this guy walks up and starts up a conversation with a young Black kid, and when you think of it, “Woah, they was always after.” So there’s a lot of information that keeps you from just painting everybody with a broad brush. So I said, “No, I haven’t.” He said, “Well, I think I’ve got one.” And he went to his little three-wheel motorcycle, ‘cause he was waiting on the funeral to end so he could lead the procession to the cemetery. And he got the little driver’s handbook, and he said, “Now, do you know how to use this?” I said, “Oh, no, sir.” He says, “Tell you what I want you to do.” He went to the back of the book, and he says, “These thirteen questions”—I remember those questions. He says, “Remember these questions.” He says, “I want you to look up the answers to every one of these questions.” He says, “I want you to write it out on a sheet of paper. Matter of fact, write the question and the answer on a separate sheet of paper. When you’ve done it,” he says, “Go back and write all of it again.” He says, “I want you to study what you have written.” And well, I did that, and of course, I didn’t understand it then, but I had test anxieties as a kid. So I had to take the test twice before I passed it. So I later on I got hired on at the police department as a public safety cadet. I was twenty- three years old. I had just come back from Atlanta, didn’t graduate, but I had





about ninety-seven credits. So I got hired on the public safety cadet. And I meet this guy. His name is Sergeant James Holeman. And I said, “That guy looks familiar.” So of course, he was a little older, and he probably was a little thicker. He still had that red hair. So one day I just, “Hey, did you ever work traffic?” And he said, “Yes.” I said, “Do you remember giving a kid a driver’s handbook one day at a funeral?” He said, “Uh,” and he started laughing. He didn’t come out and say he did remember it, but he just started laughing. And I said, “You’re Jim that gave me that driver’s handbook.” And I was like, “Wow.” And that’s why I say the Lord just put people around you and you encounter people that can do things, make deposits in your life that’s part of it, and you never forget it. So he retired as a sergeant, and he was killed after he retired. He was out walking one Sunday morning, and this guy with mental illness shot somebody that he was roommates with and he drove down the street and he shot this man who had done, I think, over thirty years of being a police officer and retired. He was taking a morning walk and he gets killed by a guy that’s got mental illness. So, I just feel like faith has been a very integral part of me moving up to where I am now, and even with this political campaign, I’ve been a democrat since I registered to vote, and I think one of the things that works for me is that a lot of people who are republicans have known me for years and they know my work ethic and they know my character. So, it’s one of those things where do you just jump and change partisanship because you’re worried about what people say? I really didn’t think that was gonna be an issue because I was approached in 2016 about running for the same position, but I had just became the chief of police and I





wanted to maximize that opportunity and finish the work that I had set out to do there. So I didn’t think it’d be a big issue, but I just trust God that this thing is, it’s already in his control. He knows what the outcome is gonna be. So I do what I’ve been doing for thirty-two years, is talking to people, sharing with them my experiences, my dream, and my vision for this community. So faith has been very, and it remains, the backbone of who I am right now, because my son at his senior year was diagnosed with Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma cancer with stage four, and so I was just wanting to position the chief of police. And so we’re having to manage his healthcare. And during that time, I don’t know if you remember, but police officers were being slammed publicly in the media. So there was always negative publicity and as a chief, you have to respond to it, and you have to really look at it and your response determines whether it gets better for your agency and you or whether it gets worse. So we were really able to navigate some challenging moments, and I remember Peter, who is not very known for giving awards and recognition to police departments, they gave us one, because one of our officers had found a puppy that was actually dying from suffocation in a car, and they had to knock the window out. I had this challenge to the community, because that’s where you get the camera phones out videotaping police officers doing bad. So I said, “I challenge you. Take out your phones. We got dash cams. We got body cams. You take out your phones.” I said, “And I bet you, most of the time you gonna catch us doing our jobs.” So it was a challenge, and of course, people take you up on it, and of course, that was what happened. We had things happening that presented the city officers in a positive light as





opposed to in a negative light. Again, being faithful and understanding that there’s good and bad, you’ve got to deal with the bad things at the same times you’ve got to deal with the not so bad things. Things that you can mitigate and it brings out your character. So I think that faith, even to this day, is gonna be what carries me though all of this.

	W:	I must ask, how is your son doing?



	A:	Oh he’s great. They had six aggressive treatments. It had spread throughout his whole body. They had to remove a section of his arm, because it had began to eat the bone in his left arm. He had just played four seasons of college basketball. So he was in awesome shape, and they couldn’t figure out how this happened. But he did three of the six treatments initially, and all of the cancer was gone and they couldn’t figure out what had happened. So they said, “Hey, keep doing the treatments,” ‘cause they worried it might come back. But—

	W:	He’s doing much better.



	A:	He doing better. He’s doing great. I mean, he’s been snowboarding, skiing, bungee-jumping, all kinds of stuff. He works for the national lab in Los Alamos, New Mexico. And he’s doing his PhD at the University of Texas at El Paso. And he’s actually flying in today. He’s in perfect build of health. Shortly after he got diagnosed with cancer and he was actually where it becomes completely in remission—I got diagnosed with prostate cancer. So going into the last part of the two years as chief of police, I was going through radiation treatment and going to work. So if it wasn’t for my faith, I just don’t think I could have mentally





held that together. And I realized then that younger people were watching me, because my son told me, he said, “Dad, I watched you get a nametag made five years before you put it on.” And we went through a vote for a new mayor—a strong mayor—under the charter formal government, and the mayor elect had ran his campaign saying to people—’cause he swept the election. He’s saying to people, “You gonna see the first African American chief.” And so he won that election by a landslide, because he had both the Black vote and the White vote and every vote in between that. And there were a lot of people that knew me, and a lot of people said, “Man, I’m just excited about what’s gonna happen.” That’s where you kind of get a bad taste in your mouth with politics, because he was not gonna do that. So my son watched me get—when the chief he appointed was appointed, he reorganized the department, and I went and had to have a new nametag made, because I was the captain of the community services division.

But I became the captain over the criminal investigations division. So I had to get a new nametag. So the Lord just kind of dealt me, he said, “You say you trust me and you believe I’m preparing you for this. I want you to show me that you really believe that.” So I had to go get a nametag made that said “David Alexander III, Chief of Police.” And so when I got the nametag made for the new captain’s assignment, I got that one made, and I took it home. I set it on this mantle in the house, and my son recalled that to me when he was diagnosed with stage four cancer. He said, “You trusted God and waited for five years.” He said, “I believe God is gonna heal me.” And later on he said to me, he says, “God says he’s gonna heal me. He just want me to tell people what happened.” So that’s where,





like I say, surviving cancer and just being able—I’m sixty years old, but I’ve got pretty good health, and I’m still out trying to make a difference with people. So faith is it.

	L:	Well, I had a question, ‘cause you’ve mentioned you’ve been in the police force since the [19]80s.

	A:	Mmhm.



	L:	Correct? So you told me that sometimes you have to deal with media portrayal of police and things like that. I was wondering how you think the community in Pensacola perceives the police force that you have right now?

	A:	Right now there’s a sentiment of distrust because of some things that have happened in the recent years. It doesn’t take long for trust to erode. It’s kinda like when you drop dirt in something that’s supposed to be clean and pure, do you go back and eat it if it’s food? The answer is no, you don’t. So there are incidents that have caused the community to be at a level of distrust‚ and that’s one of the things that we’re dealing with right now with the shootings in town, is that the Sheriff Department cannot be trusted to treat everybody right. And when you’re asking people to come up and be a witness against the shooting and you don’t offer or give them the assurance that you’re gonna protect them, they’re not gonna step up. So that’s one of the challenges that the state attorney and the sheriff department has right now. Now the police department, they’ve suffered some issues, and they’re doing some trainings right now that really, if the philosophy of running the department had remained consistent, then they





wouldn’t be in that situation. And that’s why I say, sometimes politics play on issues of race, social issues, environmental issues. They play the deficits in medical care. They play on the deficits in education. So you could easily be pitted against somebody on ethnic grounds and not really know if you’re not know if you’re not aware of how you’re following all of these political agendas. So you have to always maintain a balance, because whatever the media hangs their hat on, it shapes public perceptions. Sometimes, they don’t necessarily come out and say it, but the way they handle it infers it. Like now, it’s like, with human trafficking, everything is available after your child is trafficked and they survive, but what’s the likelihood of a female surviving human trafficking? And that’s why a lot of times putting social and economic resources—creating opportunities for people to do better, is challenging, and a lot of times, divisive along the lines of race. So that’s why these social issues are not direct causes of crime, but they play into the perceptions of crime, and when an agency is trying to reach out, or they say they’re trying to reach out, then it’s not a trusting reach out, because you don’t have credibility with the community and you don’t know how to build credibility and maintain it. So now, there are folks that you don’t even think will weigh in on this, they’re saying, “If they’ll do him like that or they’ll do her like that, I know they’ll do me like that.” And there are situations where they already know people. And that’s why this thing is not just across the racial lines. It’s just bad policies and bad practices that’ll affect everybody. So I think right now, we’re struggling as a profession with credibility. Everybody’s not gonna say that, because nobody wants to be tagged now as anti-police. If you question anything





police do right now, then you automatically anti-police. That’s the rhetoric that politics has caused, and it has a worse effect here in Pensacola. Because even when you go throughout the state and they find out you from Pensacola, “Oh, you from up there?” They know. So, it’s not like it’s some hidden secret. No, people know. So, as a leader here, I’m committed to making things better here. Because I’ve had opportunities to go other places, but I’d rather make ‘em better here.

	W:	You know, you said you’re a captain of the community— A:	Service.

	W:	Community service. I see you’ve had that interaction with the community. How have you been able to build that trust with the community?

	A:	Well, number one, being a person of integrity. They don’t have to watch you to do what you said you were gonna do. And then the other thing is what you do in the interim. A lot of times, people don’t wanna know what you know, they just wanna know that you care. And when they know you care, whatever you need they want you to have it, because that’s gonna help them. So when you go into neighborhoods—I remember as a rookie officer, I worked in North Hill, which is a pretty prestigious neighborhood. The houses were very high scale in value. They were old houses, but they were high scale in value. So you had a lot of retirees from different professions living in that North Hill area around Baptist hospital.

And they still had alleys in that part. There are certain parts of town they still have alleys, but you could ride down through the alleys. And a lot of times during the





day—’cause I worked a rotating shift—I got a chance to talk to people in the daytime, I got a chance to talk to people at night, in the evening time, and then, of course, at midnight, you were out there. You were the watchman while people slept. So what a friend of mine and I’d decide to do is a lot of times, we would just ride through those alleys, ‘cause what we would see was sometimes—it’d just be coincidental—you’d ride by and somebody’s up at the sink getting a glass of water or drinking a cup of coffee or somebody comes out to get the paper, ‘cause they’d knowed when the paperboy throws the paper, so they’d get up and go get it. So they’d catch you patrolling their neighborhood. So when they’d say, “Well, yeah I saw your light flash the other night. I knew that was you.” And so when you’d spread it to the other guys that kinda worked that same area, you’d kinda create that omnipresence. Well, people appreciated that. So that’s why when you learn neighborhoods that you’re policing and people that you’re policing learn you, if you need to know something, they’re gonna tell you. When strange people move in the neighborhood, “I’m not trying to be nosy or anything, but they sure got a lot of activity coming out of that house right over there.” One time I was told that, and it was actually a lady, she was a Avon lady. People coming and dropping off packages and stuff. It was kind of funny. But it fit into a profile of what drug trafficking might look like. So when people go to training and they really get just that surface training, and there’s no practical knowledge to go along with it, it’s easy to stereotype somebody, and that’s not the case. But people learn you when they have interactions with you. And that’s why I believe in the personal contact theory, is that the more positive contacts you can create





between law enforcement and community members, the more positive light they gonna have of that officer. And I’ve seen situations where an officer might be, he’s not as outgoing and friendly but he’s very fair, he’s very firm, and you can depend on him. He’s gonna do it right. If he got you, you did something wrong. When you hear that come from citizens, they say, “Oh if he got you, you must’ve messed up somewhere, ‘cause he’s not the one that’s gonna do anything like that.” So in other words, you establish your own credibility with people, and it doesn’t mean you have to be what they call a touchy feely type of person. No.

Your own personality. If you establish a rapport of being fair and firm and show you’re doing your job to make sure they’re safe. And then sometimes understanding the power of discretion. A lot of times, there are kids that you can send home and just the fact that you’ll tell their parents—that’s how I was. All my teacher had to say was, “I’m gonna tell your dad.” I believe I could’ve been sloppy drunk and I believe I’d have sobered up. But that statement, “I want to call your dad.” But that’s where just building a rapport with people is so important.

And even to this day, you can get all the technology you want, but it you have no credibility with people, all they need is one incident that, “Oh man, they did this and they covered it up,” and it’s like you suffer from it.

	W:	You talked about that interaction you had at fourteen, I believe, where he gave you the manual. Think about that, because I find that that’s interesting. Now you talk about police interaction with young Black men, or young men. How did that shape you, impact you, in your dealing with the community and dealing with young men today?





	A:	Well, the first thing it did was it showed me it was so natural that it was easy to connect with him. It wasn’t a pretextual—he didn’t come up asking me what’s my name, what’s my birth date, do I have anything on me that’s gonna get me in trouble. That’s not a normal conversation. You don’t walk up to your friends and say, “Hey man, you don’t have anything illegal on you, do you? Where you been?” So sometimes, when I say positive contact, it’s about I’m not stopping you in suspicion, I’m not talking to you ‘cause I think you’ve done something wrong. You need more of those opportunities, because then you gonna know some folks, you gonna know what they’re in to. It’s not that officers don’t know who the drug dealers are. They know primarily. But if you take for instance, a person on the west side because they’re Black and on the west side, you just automatically suspect. If I’m a man in my car with my family and you ask me do I have anything in my car that’s gonna get me in trouble and you say you stopped me because I got a taillight out, that’s not a normal conversation. So how do you expect me to think, “Oh he’s just doing his job?” No, I got friends that are White, that are Asian, that are Italian. They don’t get those kinda questions. So it’s kinda easy to see the bias that can be built in what they say just doing their job. So that’s why what I used to do and a lot of my colleagues that were White would do is say, “Hey, man.” Learn how to talk to people, because even the guy that’s holding dope and he’s standing there talking to you, you say, “Hey, man, did you see that fight the other day on HBO?” He’s nervous as a wreck. So now, he’s not like everybody else that don’t have anything on them or don’t have a warrant. He can’t be cool. He’s saying be calm, be cool, but he’s not. It’s kinda like the person





you stop that’s drunk. He says, [Slurring words] “How’s everything going?” Got that big deer-in-the-headlights look. So he kinda told himself. But you gotta make a clear distinction between when you’re actually doing the official part of your job and where you’re actually making contact with a citizen. And that’s what James Holeman did then, and it gave me no matter—’cause I heard about, growing up, hearing adults talking to my parents, I heard about people being hung in jail, and they said the police did it. I head about people being tied up and beaten and made to confess to something that they didn’t do. So you heard about a lot of this stuff, and a lot of this stuff wasn’t true, but then all it took was for a couple of incidents where that’s really what happened. So now you’ve got a whole bunch of stuff that you’re asked to either accept, because it’s a total package, or deny. So what do people do? “Well, it probably did happen, you just can’t prove it.” Or they’ll say, “Well that didn’t happen. People lie all the time.” And that’s divisive.

But at the end of the day, no matter what color you are, you want to be treated fair. If you got a teenage daughter you wanna believe that your daughter is gonna be treated fair and that she’s not gonna be accosted by some egotistical officer that has got a personal grind against women. You don’t want the possibility of that happening. So that’s why we have to demand character traits like integrity, professionalism, accountability, fairness. That has to be what you demand from law enforcement. I don’t care who they are. Because otherwise, you may tell yourself you feel safe, but in the back of your mind, you gonna come across things and say, “Oh, we got a problem here.” That’s what the whole community—everybody’s not coming out and saying stuff, but believe me, it’s not





just the community of color that’s complaining about how they’re treated by officers. There are people who are not Black that experience some of the same things. So it’s how do you control the behaviors. Accountability, and it has to start at the top and go all the way down to the bottom. If it doesn’t, then you leave that little gaping hole for things to be done differently depending on who you are, where you are, and what the circumstances are.

	W:	Guess you never know, you may be interacting with the next chief of police or sheriff.

	A:	Yeah. And that’s why my supervisors—I’ve always tried to train people to take my place. I would tell officers, especially when I became the sergeant over the field training squad, I said, “I’m gonna train you to take my position.” So when you train officers, you’re actually working in the capacity of a supervisor. So now you’ve gotta start thinking like a supervisor. Think at the next level up. Train at the next level up. Not just professionally, but even sports-wise. Players that train the next level up, they do exceptionally well, because they expose themselves to the competition of being at their best. So then when you get there, you already at that level, and now you build the next level up. So I believe in developing employees to take my place. As a sheriff, I would have several people that I’ll put ‘em into leadership training, that they’re coming up through the ranks, I’ll put ‘em in leadership development classes. They have ‘em all over the world. Some very awesome ones. Send ‘em to ‘em. Get ‘em acclimated to the next level up, because that might be where the next sheriff comes from when I’m done being sheriff. And that’s something that the community can appreciate, because they





get a chance to watch that person rise up through the ranks. And that’s what I think an advantage I’ve had is that I’ve been through some very difficult situations and people in the community know that. So I wasn’t fed out of a silver spoon. I went through some very turbulent times in law enforcement, as a supervisor and as a patrolman, and then as a upper-level management leader. So the experience speaks a big volume to people. It may not look the way some may want it to look on a resume, but when you get into the details of what I’ve done, what I’ve been exposed to, I was acting chief as a captain during occupy. It was a weekend they thought a riot was gonna take place at city hall. So a good friend of mine, he and I were left to pretty much run the city. Other two captains were given permission to take off. And that’s unheard of. If the chief himself is not gonna be there, then you don’t want any of your upper-level staff to be gone when you got to coordinate between divisions and allocate manpower that might be needed to spare a moment, because this thing may go to just enough people to contain this group down here to now we got a riot or we got riot-control issues that we need to address. So you can be put in positions, and if you’re poised at thinking your way through situations, then it becomes training for you rather than a stressful situation that takes you out. So that’s I say training the next level up.

You gotta say the what ifs. You’ve gotta learn from things that you see on the peripheral and ask the questions. You might not ask the questions directly to the people, but sometimes, what would have been a better way. Look at what other cities have done in situations like that and learn from their bad decisions. So it’s a





forever learning [Phone rings] environment when you’re in law enforcement. What I try to do is just make everything a learning experience.

	L:	I’m wondering how you think policing has changed since you joined the force.



	A:	I think we’ve become more technology-driven. When I joined the force, we were still writing reports. We were still using correction fluid—idiot ink—and it progressed to correction tape, and then we started getting the typewriters, the data processing systems, and then we went from there to computers, desktop computers and then eventually laptops. Whereas when I started out, the Crown Vics, the LTD’s, and the Dots Diplomats were—it’s kind of comical, now because you had your little briefcase or your organizer, and it was your remote office. And you had your standard transmission, your standard battery. Now, if you look at the battery system it takes to run all of the technology that’s in a patrol car, that’s why they have to have those big SUVs, because they have a ton of equipment. So we’ve become more technology-driven. We have access to data. But it goes back to simple things. If you’re not a person of integrity and you use data to help you do better, then you got all these tools and you’re still getting negative returns. So I think we just, some of the personal things, the face-to-face contacts, you’ve got to get back to those, because that’s how people are gonna know. It’s funny ‘cause my son going into high school, I was used to having those talks when we’d go places. He loved to go to Books A’Million and study there, ‘cause after he studied, he’d get to get a cappuccino while he studied. He was just a smart kid, but he liked to go around and look at all kinds of books. We would spend like a hour, even till they closed. So we were used to doing things together. But then





with MySpace and then Facebook and then texting, it was like man, I would wanna talk to him, and it was like he wouldn’t wanna talk. So when I start texting, oh my god, man I’ve got all kinds of conversations with my son. So then I was like, I said, “Look, son, let me tell you something.” I said, “Imma work with you.” And I would always say it’s good to have options. So we would work on things to create some options so you can choose what you want. I said, “Now, I’m in your world now. We’re texting. I’m okay with it.” I said, “But you gotta understand your dad.” I said, “Every now and then your dad wants to hear your voice. I’m working out here. There’s a whole lot of stuff going on. Every now and then, I need to hear you. I need to see you eyeball-to-eyeball. When you say, “I’m cool, I’m okay,” then I can tell when you’re lying to me or not.” And my daughter’s older, and that’s what I had to tell her. I said, “Girl,” I said, “I’ve been around you too long. Don’t tell me nothing’s wrong when I know better.” And of course, she looked down, it’d broke her heart. And I said, “You’re better than that.” I said, “He’s gonna find out that he dumped one of the most beautiful girls in the world.” That’s important for a girl to hear from her dad. That she’s beautiful. So technology has created challenges for us, but it also has brought us a long ways. But you can’t leave out the equation of human contact. You just can’t. I don’t care how much. The next level may be beam me up Scotty or lasers, but you can’t leave out the human experience of talking, because that’s how we were designed— our DNA—is to connect with each other, we’ve got to talk. So I’m just amazed to be able to see, looking back when we started, there were—not crayons but—with the paper—I even forgot what they call it now. You put the





Black paper between two sheets and that’s how you make multiple copies, and that was before a copy machine. So I’m saying to myself, I said, “God almighty.” I said, “Now the guy goes and press print from his laptop, or I can take my iPhone and send it to the printer. Why not? It’s the twenty-first century.” But still, there’s some things that will determine whether we’re getting there or whether we’re effective, and that’s the human contact. Technology’s great, but can’t replace flesh and blood. I don’t think it’ll ever be able to.

	L:	Do you have any other questions? Is there anything you’d like to add?



	A:	I mean, I think it’s pretty cool because—I’m trying to write a book, and I found out that that’s the hardest thing in the world to do is to write a book, ‘cause you got to sit down and you got to write, your frame of mind got to be there, and you’ve got to allow your thoughts to flow. And I’m telling you, I got a book that’s probably—I got maybe forty-five pages, and it’s probably been a year since I’ve been able to touch it. And it’s changed its title twice. So I’m saying to myself, “I’ve got to get this book done.” So I’m hoping that after this election that I can take some new technology and just sit down and then send it to an editor.

	W:	Do you care to share if you have a name plate on your mantle? No? Did you make another name plate?

	A:	Actually, that’s my next order of business. The shop that we got it made in has closed down. So I’m looking for it, but I may have to go to Things Remembered, but I’m gonna go ahead and make it, because I believe that’s my next destination. And we’ve been doing real well on our campaign as far as reaching





people and the response we’re getting. I don’t know what the polls look like. I’ve resolved myself to not worry about the polls. The first poll we did, this lady calls me and she says—and she’s an older lady and she’s close to ninety now—she says, “I voted for you yesterday.” I was like, “You voted for me?” I was like, “How could you? The election isn’t till November 2020.” She says, “Yeah they called me and they asked me was you doing a good job. They didn’t ask was I doing a good job. They were asking what the current sheriff administration was doing. I was like, “Oh my God.” So I said, “That’s a little hard.” And I know polls are sample sources. Going through my masters in human resources, of course, the thing they want to teach you is that pay somebody to do the research for you. But I know that standard deviation, there’s a lot of things that could be misinterpreted. It could be a problem with the source you have. And they were using the tax roll that people had their landlines still attached to their voter’s registration. So you were primarily calling a lot of older people that either knew you or didn’t know you at all. And they don’t look at TV much, and they don’t follow Facebook. So they’re not gonna know you. So there’s a lot of good things I kinda suspect came out of the poll, but one of the things I kinda resolved is that I’m not gonna ignore a poll but I’m not gonna weigh so heavily into it, because when you start talking to people and you find out, there’s some people I know that was actually called, then just then of course, is what my strategy is. So we will get to maintain that.

	W:	Indeed, indeed. Well, Chief Alexander, thank you for your time and thank you for sharing your story.

	L:	Yeah, thank you so much. That was a great interview.





	A:	Well, thanks.



	W:	And all the best in the upcoming election.



	A:	Well, I’m just ready to go take office. I know I’ve got to go through the process, I’ve got to do the work, but I’m ready to take office, because I believe I’m gonna get it.

	W:	Amen. [End of Interview]

	Transcribed by:	Emma Donnelly, April 1, 2021 Audit Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 18, 2021 Final-Edited by:	Sandra Romero, May 18, 2021