AAHP 305; Lee; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb







241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 305 Bertha Lee

African American History Project (AAHP) Interviewed by Sherry Dupree on May 8, 2013 32 minutes | 13 pages















































































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 305

Interviewee: Bertha Lee

Interviewer: Sherry Dupree and Justin Dunnavant Date: May 8, 2013



	D:	Today is May 8th of 2013, and today is Wednesday. We’re at the University of Florida, Oral History Department and we’re interviewing a very fine lady. Her name is Bertha Lee. Bertha Lee has been a part of Alachua Country since 1946 when she moved from down south to Gainesville with her family. We’d like to interview her today and talk with her about some of the situations in this county, which is Alachua County. Ms. Lee, would you please state your name?

	L:	My name is Bertha Lee Williams. Lee. [Laughter] D:	Okay and who were your parents?

	L:	My parents were Alexander Williams and Ruby Williams. Alexander Williams from Louisiana, Ruby Williams from Alachua County.

	D:	And what was her maiden name?



	L:	Her maiden name was Ruby Jones Williams.



	D:	Okay and through that reunion how many children? L:	There were five children.

	D:	Okay would you state their names please? L:	Oscar, Barbara, Earl, Willy, and Bertha.

	D:	And you were the youngest? L:	I was the youngest.

	D:	Okay and how many are living today?



	L:	There are three living. Willy, Earl and Bertha.



	D:	And Bertha, three living. Would you tell me where you all lived in Alachua County?





	L:	We lived in a little known place called Minnie Hill. Minnie Hill was a part of the Serenola Plantation.

	D:	Can you give me some coordinates as to where that was located?



	L:	That’s the Southwest section of Gainesville located west of 441, south of the Williston Road. The number, road number for Williston Road I can’t remember all the time so I just call it the Williston Road. That’s what it was called back then.

	D:	Okay.



L:  And it’s situated on 1,000 acres of a former plantation. D:   And so did your father own 1000 acres?

L:  No my father didn’t own 1000 acres. My great-great-great grandfather was a former slave of the Serenola Plantation and after slavery he had became the owner of approximately seventy acres of the plantation.

D:   Tell me one thing, how did we get the name Serenola?



	L:	Serenola was recorded in Alachua County records but it wasn’t known whether it was a legal plantation or not so all of the documents states “Known as Serenola Plantation” but there were no local documents showing that it was actually a plantation. So, in 2009 I went on a journey to find out where the name Serenola came from and it was a name that was given to that particular plantation by the owner. The owner was from Darlington, South Carolina. And from that point of research, I had to go into the South Carolina Historical Archives to verify that Serenola was the name given to the plantation by that plantation owner in 1857.

	D:	What was that, a lady’s name by chance?





	L:	Serenola, a part of it was not really a lady’s name, it’s the form of the word Serenity.

	D:	Yes.



	L:	So it means calm, peaceful and in some of the history of the Serenola there were times in which former owners used that word, the Serenola, being a place of peace and calm.

	D:	Well once your family got involved with the Serenola, what did they do? What type of work did they do on the Serenola Plantation and then of course they still kept the name Serenola. It became Serenola Farm for your family.

L:  Serenola Plantation was a plantation of farmers. They raised sugar cane, corn, cotton, and they were also pines—large amount of pine trees that was growing there so my family they ended up being farmers.

	D:	Yes.



	L:	They farmed the land. They were brought here in 1857. The journey from Darlington, South Carolina consisted of plantation owners, 120 slaves and they remained on the plantation. A large number remained on the plantation after slavery and they began acquiring the land starting in 1870 through 1880 and they worked, save their money, they did not acquire it through the Homestead Act.

They purchased it out right in cash. We have yet to figure out how in the period from the end of slavery, 1865 to 1875 that they could have acquired that amount of money. Some bankers went from 270 to 800 dollars but the total of lot. I checked the Freedmen Bank and I found that there were no records of any of the owners at that time making a request for a loan from the Freedmen Bank. So,





through family history then we’re to assume that they worked and they saved and they started purchasing the land. But it was with the help and through the help of the owner of the plantation at that time and the owners at that time was very prominent—well no, men who lived in this country.

	D:	How about the Carnegies? L:	The first owner?

	D:	Yeah go back to the first owner.



	L:	First owner was David R. Williams. D:	Williams that’s right.

	L:	From Darlington, South Carolina. The son of the former governor of South Carolina used to come there I think in 1814 or 1816, used to come to South Carolina. He was the grandson of the former governor. From David R. Williams, the land was sold to Captain Garth W. James who was the son of the well-known Henry James. He came after the end of slavery. He was one of the northern planters that came into the area, acquired land. During or before his coming into Florida, he was Sergeant, I guess at the time with the fifty-fifth Colored regiment.

	D:	The Massachusetts—



	L:	Out of Massachusetts. He was injured at the time and he never went back into battle but there were skirmishes in Florida. That’s what him into Florida but not into battle. So after the Civil War—and he also was an abolitionist, he was also an abolitionist, whole family was abolitionists. So his older brothers which was William and Henry, they were known for their intellect. The two young brothers Robeson and Garth was raised with a different idea. They were not considered





the intellectuals of the family. So they both went into the military to fight with the Colored units and of course he was in the battle at Ft. Wagner. He was one of the troops who gave information to the board hearings after the war about what took place at Ft. Wagner. Upon his purchasing the Serenola, Serenola wasn’t the original plantation that he purchased. His first plantation was purchased in Gordon near Monteocha area. That was the first plantation that he purchased along with two other former northern military soldiers who came. They, at a point, could not get along because what had happened with the former soldiers was Garth’s intention was that he wanted to have a utopia where he would educate former slaves, allow them to own land and become citizens in that way; through education and land ownership. Well his partners didn’t agree. They wanted him to do what they were sent to the South to do, to continue slavery under a different name. So, he broke away and he traveled about four miles south of Gainesville and he found the Serenola and that’s how he purchased the Serenola. While he was the owner of the Serenola problems came. He wasn’t a farmer and the bo weevils came. [Laughter] And when the boll weevils came, his job as a farmer started to dwindle and he was going broke and he was losing his father’s money. So, then he sold the Serenola Plantation to a lawyer named William Robeson who was an attorney for Andrew Carnegie. So Andrew Carnegie invested in the Serenola which owned a certain percentage of it. Then William Robeson acquired that interest and William Robison became the full owner but before William Robison became the full owner, Garth W. James had sold the first mortgage to one of the former slaves which was Harrison Lynch and





that was in 1875 so that was the first mortgage that was written on the Serenola was in 1875 to Harrison Lynch. When Robeson took over he acquired that mortgage so about 1880 the mortgage was paid off. By 1880 my ancestors, Mack Williams, Washington West, Jerry Gregg had also acquired large pieces of the land. They were not through mortgage but they were just through, I guess, purchases. And by the 1880s through 1890s, former slaves owned approximately four hundred plus acres of the land. They remained the owners of that land until 1890 something when William Robeson sold the first piece of the plantation to a White owner and they were the Crowns. They moved from Virginia and became owner of, I think, it was approximately 20 acres of the land. The land remained as it was until the 1920s when the remainder of the thousand acres was sold to another White owner. So the original owners of the plantation after the Civil War was predominantly Black. And Robeson sold the land to those former slaves.

Those former slaves kept it within the family. When one could not handle his taxes or whatever, the next would step in and take over. But those five original owners, would remain the five original owners and their families who were the majority owners of the plantation after.

	D:	Let’s come up to today. What happened two years ago in Alachua County concerning—?

	L:	In Alachua County with the Serenola, I ventured out to solve the mystery and to get historical information about the Serenola. I was not searching for the Serenola in the sense of the land owners. The previous land owners. I was searching for the history of my family. So, mine started out with genealogy, which





I had been studying genealogy over few years. So out of that study of genealogy I discovered the history of the Serenola. Not the Serenola of the slave owners but the Serenola of the slaves and I did genealogy on all of the slaves. That was noted on the maps. There was a map that was done in 1875 for Andrew Carnegie that listed the names of the former slaves. So I started doing genealogy research on those and out of that came a request for the state marker recognizing the former slaves of the Serenola Plantation. So it was a journey that started, didn't know where it was going to lead to, didn't know what was gonna come out of it. But the state of Florida accepted my research and they allowed me to work and now we have a marker: “Serenola Plantation.”

	D:	Yes.



	L:	It gives a brief history of the beginning but we did something that had not been done before in the state of Florida. The state told me that they do not put names of former slaves on markers unless they were of significance and I said they were significant.

	D:	Very much so.



	L:	Because there was a hundred and twenty people who arrived in Alachua County. No one knew what happened to them after slavery. No one really cared. No one even knew that Serenola Plantation existed. Only through the records of “Known as Serenola Plantation” so I made them significant.

	D:	Another thing that was made significant was the church, and let’s go back and give us a little background on the church.





	L:	Okay the original church of the plantation was called “Serenola Baptist Church.” My great grandfather was one of the organizers of that church in 1885. Now we know as a people that religion did exist on the plantation. We don’t know how, we don’t know when or where they served, but we do know that he was a minister.

So if you have a minister, that means that there is a religion taking place. He organized the first church 1885 and it was named Serenola Baptist Church. Well over a period of years, as time passed, the people of the community wanted to separate from the name “plantation.” So, they renamed the place and gave a new name to the settlement, and railroads tracks had run through the plantation around 1885 to 1895. So by the early 1900s there was a depot named “Minnie Hill Depot.” So the people of the community decided that they didn’t want to live under the name of “Serenola Plantation” any longer so they named the settlement “Minnie Hill.” So when they named it Minnie Hill, they organized a new church. I would say the in-laws of Washington West, who organized the first church; there was another Baptist Church which was located in a different area than where the bulk of the people lived because the Serenola Baptist Church serviced two communities. There was a community called the Pine Woods and then there was the Serenola Plantation so the church sit between the two. So that church remained but the families decided that they wanted to get a church more closer to the area where the largest number of people lived on the plantation. So, they organized the church “Minnie Hill Baptist Church” named after the depot: Minnie Hill Depot. So the settlement became Minnie Hill. It was a close-knit community, close-knit settlement because everybody was who was in





the settlement were relatives. So you would say it was one big family. Then as time passed the church fell into hardship and they lost the land which the original church sat on. So, one of those former slaves who still owned a large portion of land, donated another piece of land and a new church was built. The New Minnie Hill Baptist Church, which still sits on that piece of land. That church is still there. So upon getting the marker, the state also granted me permission to name those churches on the marker. So on the marker “Serenola Baptist Church” is listed and Trinity Missionary Baptist Church is listed. The road that it sits on, which is also a historic road, is also listed on that marker. The marker now sits in Squirrel Ridge Park, which is located on the corner of 441 and the Williston Road and some of the descendants of the former slaves—or I should say, freedmen—still reside in that area and still attend the church. I still attend the church. I live in Jacksonville, but I drive to Gainesville every week and I attend the little church on the dirt road on Serenola Plantation.

	D:	I’d like to get you to cover just a couple more things. Would you please state your husband’s name and your children?

	L:	My husband’s name is John R. Lee. I have two children; Bridgette Annette Johnson and Gary Allen Lee.

	D:	And where are your children?



	L:	My son Gary lives in Germany. He is with the U.S Army. He’s a U.S Army contractor. My daughter lives in Jacksonville, Florida. She is the recs manager at Baptist Hospital which is located in Jacksonville, Florida.

	D:	How many grandchildren do you have?





	L:	I have three grandchildren. Their names are Adrian Lee, Dominique Lee, and Rodrick Johnson. One of them is a graduate of UCF: University of Central Florida. Rodrick is attending the University of Central Florida. Adrian is graduated and is the food/beverage coordinator with the Wilson Centric Hotel in Orlando, Florida.

	D:	Very proud of her. L:	Very proud of her.

D:  That’s exactly true. Is there anything that you would like to share with us that we did not ask today? And I’m gonna go back. I would like for you to say where you went to school in Gainesville. So for the record.

L:   I am an alumni of Lincoln High School. Graduating class of 1962.



	D:	And would mention some of the people that you know that were classmates of yours because we ran across a couple of them out here in the lobby.

	L:	One well known one is Albert White. [Laughter] D:	That’s right.

	L:	That was one of my best friends and classmates and I know Judge Stephen Mickle. He was a class ahead of me, 1961 and I was just looking at the brochure outside and Samuel Taylor, know him. I think it was Isaac Jones who was a professor at Santa Fe and there’s just so many. I could go back to 1950s when I started Elementary School at Lincoln. All my teachers and my students, but it would be a very long interview if I started going into everybody that I know in Gainesville.





D:  And I’d also like to know a little bit about your travels. Would you just mention a couple of places that you traveled here and your husband? And by the way we didn’t ask what did your husband do?

L:   My husband—



D:   Because you both are retired.



	L:	My husband is a retired federal mediator and he’s an active federal arbitrator. [Laughter] I always travel with him throughout the United States. He covers quite a bit of territory on mediation cases and arbitration cases in the Southeast section of the United States. We have traveled—my favorite place is Honolulu, Hawaii, Mexico, Canada, the Islands but mainly around the United States.

	D:	You’ve done your traveling.



	L:	Done quite a bit of traveling around the United States.



	D:	Is there anything that you would like to share that I did not ask?



	L:	I think you just about covered my life from beginning to where I am now. Right now, I’m retired. I spend all of my time now doing genealogy and historical work. I’m in the middle of about four projects and all four projects connect in my historical research as well as genealogy. I’m now researching the Serenola cemetery which we pretty much estimate to be well over a hundred years because with all the research that I have found, I have not been able to find that any of the former slaves were buried anywhere else on the Serenola except in this particular area. We are ready now to begin plotting to see exactly where most of the graves are located. We pretty much have the names of 153 known burials there. So now my personal project is to start plotting and also in the





middle of continuing research on Serenola Plantation and that is to continue my genealogy work verifying all the names in which I have that was associated with the Serenola to, in essence, prove to myself that they were the former slaves and so far it has been exciting and the connections have been happening. I’ve been able to locate quite a bit of documentation showing that they were the former slaves of the Serenola. And then I have my family tree in which that is a continuing process of finding and verifying all of these people and bringing the connections together because those five-original people that is listed on that marker as property owners, there is a family connection. We grew up knowing that we were cousins but as to where they fit into the lineage I have yet to bring all of them together. I have brought three of them together but I can’t bring the two other ones together and those names that were mentioned on that marker was Harrison Lynch and Hannah Lynch, Mack Williams and Sally Williams, Washington West and Nellie West, Jerry Gregg, Jane Gregg and a widow by the name of Ina Gregg. There is the connection and that will be my greatest project would be to know exactly how close—I know how close three families were because I brought them together to find out that they were father, daughter, husband, father, daughter, husband but the Ina Gregg connection to the Jerry Gregg, I have to bring that. And if I bring that together then it would help then that they were one big family that was acquiring the property. That’s where I am right now.

	D:	And I wanna thank you so much for your time today and what you are doing is helping African American history. Even though it’s personal for the family, you’re





sharing history that Alachua County does not have, the state of Florida does not have, the United States doesn’t have. And of course we gotta do a little bit more with South Carolina because of many of the family members came from South Carolina here to Alachua County. We want to thank you for your time today.

Today is May 8th. This is a Wednesday afternoon 2013 at the University of Florida, Oral History Project. My name is Sherry Sherrod Dupree and we have Justin Dunnavant and we wish to thank you for your time.

	L:	Thank you. [End of Interview]





	Transcribed by:	Sandra Romero, November 30, 2015 Audit-edited by:	Justin Dunnavant, April 10, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 23, 2019