AAHP 769; Osborn; Page 10







Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz








241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 769 Eddie Lee Osborn 2-28-2020

Interviewed by Ryan Morini, Theresa Hill, Armen Atkins on February 28, 2020 67 minutes | 27 pages



Abstract: In this interview, Cantonment, Florida elder Eddie Lee Osborn recounts his life in Cantonment over the course of nearly one hundred years, from his birth in 1924 to the recording of this interview in 2020. He describes growing up on his grandfather’s farm, where they raised livestock and crops to sustain themselves. He recalls that his family hardly ever visited the store, instead relying on themselves and the natural resources around them for supplies. He recalls walking several miles to school each day, where he attended classes with two teachers, Mrs. Rogers and Mrs. Williams.

Osborn recalls working briefly at the paper mill in Cantonment before changing to a better-paying shipyard job in Mobile, Alabama. Osborn had just settled in Mobile when he was drafted into the Navy for combat in the Second World War. He remembers his deployment to the South Pacific, where he and his crewmates faced relentless bombardments from Japanese adversaries. Osborn recalls the added sting of returning to a segregated homeland in spite of his military service. Osborn goes on to discuss the eventual integration of Cantonment and Pensacola, reflecting that conditions have gotten better for Black workers at the paper mill. Osborn returned to work at the paper mill after his service, where he stayed for forty years until his retirement. He has now been retired for nearly four decades and enjoys making wine and fishing.





Keywords: [Pensacola, Florida, Black community, family history, World War II, military, Navy, veteran, segregation, Mobile, paper mill, labor, education, rural community]



AAHP 769

Interviewee: Eddie Lee Osborn

Interviewer: Ryan Morini, Teresa Hill, Herman Atkins Date: February 28, 2020

	M:	Okay, so this is Ryan Morini with the Sam Proctor Oral History Program. Today is February 28, 2020, and I am here in Cantonment, Florida, with—

	O:	Eddie Lee Osborn. M:	As well as—

	H:	Teresa Hill.



	M:	And—



	A:	Herman Atkins.



	M:	So, thank you very much for joining us. Can I ask first how to spell your name?



Your full name.



	O:	My full name? E-D-D-I-E, L-E-E, O-S-B-O-R-N.



	M:	And can I ask when and where you were born?



	O:	I was born here in Cantonment, 622 Wisconsin Road, Cantonment. M:	Okay, and what year?

	O:	1924, July the 2, 1924.



	M:	Okay. So were you born at home?



	O:	Yeah, during that time you didn’t have nothing but midwives. M:	Do you know who the midwife was for that birth?

	O:	No, actually, I don’t.



	M:	But you do know you were born at home? O:	That’s right.

	M:	Can I ask your parents’ names?



	O:	My mother’s name is Bessie Osborn, my father’s name was Albert Osborn. M:	Okay, were they both from here in Cantonment?





	O:	Yeah, my mother, she was raised here in Cantonment, but Daddy, he’s from Alabama. He’s from Evergreen.

	M:	Okay, did they ever tell you how they met or anything like that? O:	No, they didn’t.

	M:	And can I ask what they did for a living? What work did they do? O:	What was that?

	M:	What work did your parents do?



	O:	Housekeeping. My daddy, he did pulpwood.



	M:	Okay. So, can I ask what some of your earliest memories are from growing up here in Cantonment?

	A:	Your earliest memories?



	O:	Growing up here in Cantonment? Yeah I was brought up here in Cantonment. I was a kid, nowhere to play, play in the woods. Yeah, it was a rough time here coming up.

	M:	Oh yeah?



	O:	Yeah.



	A:	Anything about your schooling you remember?



	O:	My schooling? Yeah, I didn’t go to school. Fifth grade, that’s as far as I got to go at that time. Had to walk a couple of miles to school. Raining outside, come up and back from school in the rain. It was a rough time, a little bit more than two miles I had to walk.

	M:	That’s a ways. Who was your teacher?



	O:	There was one teacher named Mrs. Rogers, and the other one name is Williams.





	M:	Okay, was one of them your favorite?



	O:	Yeah, Mrs. Rogers. [inaudible 4:05] they had to walk to school until I got there. Yeah, because they was living over in Pensacola, they were living out here with an aunt, going to school and everything. And then the weekend, they’d go home in Pensacola to family. And they had to walk, they walked to school with us in the morning. Then when we’d get out of school they’d usually walk back home with us. They didn’t walk uphill, there was no uphill. They didn’t have them to take us to school, I had to walk every day.

	M:	Takes a lot. Kept you in shape, I guess. Did you have a lot of chores and things growing up, a lot of work to do?

	O:	No, we didn’t.



	M:	Okay, so you were able to play a lot as a kid? O:	Oh yeah.

	M:	You were staying in the woods and things like that? Like what did you do? What kinds of games did you play or what kinds of things?

	O:	Oh, we played baseball and volleyball, but the thing is with baseball and things like that, we had to make them balls ourself. We’d get a rock and then put things on it, tie it with string, and that’s was our ball to play the game with. We didn’t know what it was that they played baseball with a specially-built baseball or something like that. I was raised on baseball, I was raised on using rocks.

	M:	Wow that’s big. Do you still hit ‘em pretty good? Or throw them okay? O:	Oh, yeah.

	H:	Don’t get hit by one.





	O:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	M:	Must have been a little bit heavy, but yeah. Well, did you do any fishing, any of that kind of thing as a kid?

	O:	Oh yeah, I did a lot of fishing. My grandfather used to take me fishing. Fish don’t live by the creek. He would turn to me, “I want that big one, we’re going fishing in the morning.” And I went to sleep that night thinking about that fishing. And then the next morning we’d get up and hook that horse to that red wagon, and then we’d get on it and go on down to Livemyer Creek, ride the horse up by the creek, tie ‘em, and then we’d go out there and fish until we got one. And then we’d go back home, get on the wagon and go on back home. Horses, that’s all we had to ride. Wasn’t no automobiles. We didn’t have no automobiles. You used to see an automobile, it would almost scare you when you see them on the highway because the dirt road then, [Highway] 29, it was an influence. Some type of black top on here, but it didn’t improve until nearly the [19]30s and then they improved 29. Before that, it took time to get from here to Pensacola. I used to walk from here to Pensacola. Walked there and think nothing of it.

	M:	That’s a ways.



	O:	Yeah, fifteen miles.



	M:	How long did that take? Did it take a day to get there and a day to get back? O:	No. It didn’t take but about four or five hours.

	M:	Oh, you were in good shape. [Laughter] What if you had to carry things? Did you ever go shopping in Pensacola and have to bring it back? Like, was there a horse and buggy kind of thing?





	O:	No, I didn’t do no shopping. Everything right here around the corner. There wasn’t but one grocery store, and they had a store down in Muskogee, other than that, I can’t remember. Had meals down there, they closed it up before my time. Well, right out there, that cornfield out there, they kept it open for a while. We used to go out there and do a little shopping, and that was it.

	M:	So everything you ate you were growing or you were getting from--?



	O:	The reason was my grandfather raised our hogs and cows and chickens and stuff like that.

	M:	Okay, did your grandfather live here in Cantonment? O:	Yeah, he lived right here on Muskogee Road.

	M:	Okay, what was his name? O:	My grandfather?

	M:	Mmhm.



	O:	Henry Greggs.



	M:	And your grandmother, what was her name?



	O:	Ruby Greggs. She died when I was young. I was young when she died. She put it up.

	M:	Do you have any stories about your grandparents or any memories of them that you’d want to share?

	O:	Yeah, my grandparents taught me lots of stuff. Learning how to fish, learning how to plant a garden. I was so small, I could go over and take care of the garden.

Before he died, because he died in 1934. My grandmother, she died in 1950, I think. So that’s one side of the picture. I just had a rough time in my life.





	M:	But it sounds like your family prepared you well though. O:	Oh yeah.

	M:	You learned a lot.



O:  Everywhere she went, housekeeping, taking care of—My mom and dad, they separated when I was a kid. And then my mother had to take care of me, one sister and one brother.

M:  Okay, and where did your mom do the housekeeping? Was there a particular family?

	O:	Mmhm, a particular family. One that lived over ten miles, they would send someone to come pick her up. They had an automobile because see, we didn’t have nothing but that horse and wagon. Didn’t know what an automobile was.

	M:	How many horses did you have?



	O:	My granddaddy had a couple of horses, and one mule.



	M:	Okay. Did you have to help with all that planting and all of that?



	O:	Yeah but I was so small I didn’t have to do very much of that thing. My grandfather, he died. And then I got grown, plant me a garden. But I never did the farming.

	M:	How big was his farm? Do you know?



	O:	When I was coming up, he had about twenty acres.



	M:	Okay, enough to grow a good bit of food on. Did he make his own bacon and all that type of thing?

	O:	Oh, yeah. Kill them hogs, cows. During that time, there wasn’t no [inaudible 12:55] out here.





	M:	Mmhm.



	O:	The refrigerator had to have ice and it would only come on once a week. Buy ice to put in that box to keep your food until the next week. He had [inaudible 13:25] of the smokehouse. Smoked it, he smoked it about once a week. And then they took it out, leave it in the smokehouse and he’d get ready and go out there and cook—

	M:	Was it good?



	O:	Oh, yeah. It was good then during that time because we didn’t have nothing. [Laughter]

	M:	Did your family ever go hunting for anything or did you eat a lot of the fish that you’d catch or anything like that?

	O:	Oh yeah. Yeah, we’d go fishing. We still fish. M:	Ever go hunting?

	O:	Oh, yeah. We could hunt. Kill some wild game, rabbits, coons, ‘possums, eat the ‘possum and stuff like that.

	M:	Did you have a favorite out of all those? O:	Yeah, coon, that’s the best thing.

	M:	It’s pretty good meat. Rich. How did you cook it?



	O:	Bake it, you had a wood stove, you know. And they had it over and did all their baking and stuff in it with the wooden stove.

	M:	That’s a lot of wood. O:	Oh, yeah.

	M:	Where’d you get the wood to burn?





	O:	Everywhere you’d go outside your door you’d see pine trees, oak trees, and you could cut them down and have your wood right there.

	M:	So every so often you’d just go and get another one? O:	Yeah.

	M:	That’s big. In the summer it must’ve gotten hot cooking with a fire and all that.



	O:	Yeah, but we didn’t have nothing but a piece of cardboard like that to make a fan out of. [Laughter] Yeah, at the time there wasn’t no electric.

	M:	How’d you keep cool?



	O:	At night, we’d had to regulate with the window. We’d open that window up, get a little breeze, and you could sleep at night. There wasn’t no electric or nothing like that. You just used a piece of cardboard for a fan. [Laughter]

	M:	That is tough. Well, what about if you got sick? Did your family use herbal remedies or anything like that or was there a doctor around here?

	O:	We had a doctor, he lived about… Oh, I’d say about five miles from where we were living at. You see him when you’d get sick, he’d always go in the woods and get the stuff you need to fix for it. There wasn’t no drug store, we didn’t even know what a drugstore was. Go out there in the woods, they would go out there in the woods and get all the stuff you need for a cold or if you were ill, and then they’d use that to give the family to take. But anyway—

	M:	Do you remember any of those plants specifically?



	O:	Oh yeah. You’d take a fevergrass tea, it wasn’t nothing but grass, but you called it a fevergrass. You know, make tea out of that, break that cold. They would grow it out in the backyard. [Laughter] I wish I knew what that stuff looked like





now or I’d go out there and get some now. There ain’t none of that stuff you can get now at the grocery store. [Laughter]

	M:	Did you get like berries and things out there, blackberries, blueberries?



	O:	Oh, yeah. There were plenty of blackberries and blueberries and stuff like that. If you knew where to look, you could go out there and pick ‘em.

	M:	I guess you ate a lot of them just right off the plant? O:	Oh, yeah.

	M:	Did anyone in your family ever make like jelly or pies?



	O:	Oh, yeah. Used to make that jelly out of them blackberries, make pies out of ‘em.



When you wanted wine, they’d make wine out of ‘em, blackberries.



	M:	How was that?



	O:	They’d make that wine out of the blackberries. Get the wine, you didn’t have to go to a store to get that. There wasn’t no store to go to, to buy no wine or nothing like that, you had to make that.

	M:	Was it good wine? O:	Oh, yeah.

	M:	Strong?



	A:	He makes some of the best wine, homemade wine. O:	Yeah. I made some for him a year or so ago.

	M:	Oh, okay.



	O:	But I quit now. [Laughter] M:	Out of blackberries?

	O:	I made it out of blackberries, scopolines.





	M:	That sounds good.



	O:	When I was coming up, anything we needed we’d just go out in the woods and get it. Like I say, you didn’t have to run to no store. You had to go to the store to get very little.

	M:	Some people tell me about a dessert called doobie, did anyone make that?



	O:	Doobie? Yeah. You’d make that out of blackberries, blueberries, doobie. Go and cook a doobie, yeah, that was good.

	M:	It sounds good. [Laughter] So, you went to school up to the fifth grade, and you said Mrs. Rogers was your favorite teacher, right?

	O:	Yeah.



	M:	Why was she your favorite? Do you remember?



	O:	Yeah, because she was a younger teacher and Mrs. Williams, she was older.



She was old. She’d take the children to school, right back in the woods. Nothing but woods. And I had to walk a couple of miles to that school. It was cold weather, I had to walk home in the rain, and in cold, cold weather. And I’d go out there in the woods and get some logs so they’d have a way to heat up the school, for heat. On Sundays our class would go out there and get them logs out for the fire the school. Then whenever they built a new school in 1944, it’s a new school there now. They didn’t have no electric in that school. It was way out in the woods. And then they moved that school after I got graduated, they moved that school out here in Cantonment. My children went to school there until they built that Ransom High School. And then Ransom and all the other high schools. It was a tough drag. See, when I was going to school here, it was just one room. I





had to stop going to school and go to work, I had to help my family. I started working when I was around about—oh, I’d say about twelve or thirteen years old.

	M:	Where were you working?



	O:	Cutting paper wood out in the woods for the paper mill in Mobile and Panama City. Hard work.

	M:	That sounds like hard work. How did you adjust to that? You just kind of did it?



How long did it take you to get the feel for what you were doing in that job?



	O:	How long?



	M:	I mean, I guess… Was it hard to learn that work in the beginning? O:	Oh, there was nothing to doing it. [inaudible 24:36]

	M:	Just keep it going.



	O:	Mmhm. By hand, everybody can do that. Didn’t have to have no skill. M:	Were you pretty sore in the beginning when you started that?

	O:	Oh, yeah. You hardly get used to it, you know, because it’s such hard work. You had to be picking up these six-foot-long logs and stack ‘em. And then you’d get that in the bench, and the next thing you know you have to go help the truck, put ‘em on the truck and all that. And I was glad to see it paid me a coin because Lord, we had some hard work. It was hard work but it paid me, it was harder than what I was doing before here coming up.

	M:	Working with those logs sounds dangerous, too. Was it dangerous doing that work out there? I mean, did you see people get hurt?

	O:	Oh yeah. It was dangerous cutting them trees with that rusty saw. I didn’t know but about one or two got hurt real bad when a tree fall on ‘em.





	M:	That’s some rough work. O:	Yeah.

	M:	So when did you start at the paper mill?



	O:	I started out there in the paper mill in 1940. Yeah, I started in 1940 when the mill started up out there. And then, in 1941, I quit and went to Mobile and got a ship job making more money. When I left the paper mill, I was making forty cents an hour and I went to Mobile and worked at a shipyard making eighty cents an hour. They made the ships over there during World War II, and then I would make more money. That’s when I went to making money, when I got drafted. I got drafted and when I got out of service, I went back to work at the mill. I stayed there, so that’ll be forty years.

	M:	Wow. So what branch of the service were you drafted into? O:	Navy, CBs.

	M:	The CBs, you said? O:	Yeah.

	M:	Okay, my grandfather was in that. What was the basic training like for you?



Where did you do that?



	O:	Basic training? I taken that in North Carolina and then in Williamsburg, Virginia. And then when I got out of school, fly away to California, I took my basic training there. And then I got shipped out to Austendorf, out of California. I got shipped out to the south of the Pacific.

	M:	Okay, and what were your experiences like after you got shipped out?





	O:	Yeah, see, [inaudible 29:03- 29:10] the biggest thing was trying to stay alive. But the Japanese was putting off torpedoes on the island there, unless the Japanese on it pretend everything’s back to mounted Marines and shelling the island and leave room where we can get in. We got in and taken that Blue Beach and then the lemonjaw north of their group. In lemonjaw, they stayed on that island there twenty months. Then it got destroyed after about four years. It wasn’t easy.

	M:	Doesn’t sound it. O:	Yeah.

	M:	What did you do after you were discharged?



	O:	After I got discharged? I came back here and went back to work at the mill? M:	Just straight away?

	O:	Just straight away at the mill and I stayed there for the next forty years. And then I retired.

	M:	Had Cantonment changed at all since you left, while you were in the war? Did anything change from when you left until when you came back?

	O:	Oh, yeah. It changed. When I left, there wasn’t but a few houses. When I got back, they done built up so many houses I didn’t hardly believe it. Because when I left, there wasn’t very many houses here.

	M:	Bigger town then, I guess?



	O:	Yeah. It built up into a town from nothing. See, there wasn’t nothing here when I left. It wasn’t but about seventy Black families here in Cantonment. They come and moved here, everybody now. They moved in over here now.

	M:	That’s a big change.





	O:	Oh, yeah.



	M:	Well, and so what else kind of happened? Did you buy a house?



	O:	Yeah, I bought a house. I bought a house; I built a house to live in. And then I bought another house and lived in it for a while. And then I had a house built that I’m living in now, had it built and I’ve been here ever since. I bought a house next door, and it’s for rental. I got several rental houses, which I still own.

	M:	Did you ever get married?



	O:	No, I never have been married, no.



	M:	So you’ve been living here in Cantonment for--? O:	All my life.

	M:	All your life except for the service, I guess?



	O:	Except when I lived in Mobile. I’d never be alone because I got grandchildren over there.

	M:	Did you like it over in Mobile?



	O:	Oh yeah, I liked it during that time. Yeah, because the money was over there, making more money over there. That’s why I liked it, that money.

	M:	That’s fair. And so when you were growing up here, it was segregated in Cantonment, right?

	O:	Oh, yeah.



	M:	When did you first become aware of that?



O:  Let me see, it was the 1940s, the year 1940. The year 1940, we couldn’t ride no busses. It was just like that. And then we had to sit in the backseat. If they didn’t have no room in the backseat, you couldn’t get on there. It happened once you





were riding the bus in the backseat. I used to see hobos catch a train in Cantonment and ride it to Pensacola. And all when I was like fourteen years old. You’d see a hobo, he would ride to Pensacola. That’s only sixteen miles.

	M:	That’s a ways. And I guess the military was segregated when you were there too?

	O:	Oh, yeah.



	M:	I mean, what was that like?



	O:	See, the military, they would have sitting here Blacks and Whites. Blacks be together; Whites be together. Whenever the Japs got so bad, got so bad or whatever we were, and then they’d all try to come together then. And then when they got back to the States, they want to separate again.

	A:	When you was on the train coming back—



	O:	When I was on the train coming back, we was all together just like that time at attention. And then we got to San Diego, we got off that ship, we go get discharged, and we go up to get discharged and then these guys, at the state of Texas, we were all in coach together, and then when we got to the state of Texas, now they wanna cluster theyself. They wanna be with the White folk.

They wanna cluster theyself in the cabin and say, “Y’all sit over there.” Security yell, “Y’all were together then you’re gonna stay together until you get to this side. He wouldn’t let them have no coach to themselves, they had to ride on with us in that to New Orleans. Yeah, it was a quick turn for ‘em. They adjusted over there and then when they got back here to the States, Lord, they didn’t want nothing to do with us. [Laughter]





	M:	Was that hard to adjust to though, when you saw that? When you were overseas and then you came back and people just—Was it hard to accept that when you came back?

	O:	The segregation?



	M:	Yeah, the segregation.



	O:	Yeah. Yeah, because to tell you the truth, they wanted to be these figures but they kept going, “No, you have to stay together until you get discharged.” And then that cut that out. They did all right until they got to the state of Mississippi. When they got to the state of Mississippi, they want to stick to themselves.

	A:	Did you tell them about the restaurants, water fountains, Black and White?



	O:	Yeah, you take water fountains, yeah. Sure. You take out their water fountains and Whites and us couldn’t use the same water fountain.

	M:	Yeah, how different was the water going to be, but… yeah. Well, so you were living here when Dr. King and the Civil Rights Movement and everything was taking place?

	O:	Yeah.



	M:	Did people talk about that here? O:	Oh, yeah.

	M:	What do you remember about that time?



	O:	Yeah, when they had that march up there at Selma, they crossed that bridge, the city over there beat up the Black folks so bad. Police had them dogs and things like that going for them and all that. Just had a rough time of it. Finally, they got Selma rigged and they all come together.





	A:	And he also told a story about when he went to Mississippi, tell them about it.



	O:	Oh, yeah I went to Mississippi and stop there at night for some gas, because I didn’t know nothing about the place. And the guy told me, “Pump your own gas here. Folks like you don’t deserve someone to pump it for you.” And they turn and say, “Fellows I want to get some gas, I’ll be out there in a minute.” I said, okay, I go on back out there to the car waiting on him. Still about ten minutes and he wouldn’t come out. I went in and told him I want to get some gas. “I told you I’ll be out there in a minute.” And I said, “All right, I’m going on back out there. He can take his own damn time.” He come out there and give me that gas, and then when I got the gas, I told him, “Now I don’t have to pay you for it.” I won’t pay for it, but I didn’t know where I was at. The next day or two is when Emmett Till, they killed him and put him in jail and the guy at the store there got him out of jail and killed him and throw him in the Chipola River. And I said, “I was at that place where he got killed at and I didn’t know where I was at.” There’s nothing you can do to me to get me to go back over there.

	H:	Where was that? O:	Out in—

	A:	When Emmett Till got killed, that was where he was getting his gas and when he—I think he was taking one of his friends home when he came back. When he came back, he stopped at the gas station—

	O:	They come up to and say, “What you trying to do getting gas over here in Mississippi?” He say, “Yeah, what part of Mississippi?” I said, “Pucketville, they didn’t wanna sell me no gas over there last night.” He said, “You lucky. You got a





new car like that, one of them could kill you.” The next day or two, that’s when they killed Emmett Till over there so I’m just lucky. They killed that boy on a lie. They don’t wanna sell me no gas or nothing like that?

H:   Were there any kind of dangerous scenarios like that here in Cantonment?



	Racial crimes like that here in Cantonment, where people were being violent? O:	It wasn’t too bad here in Cantonment. It really wasn’t too bad like some places.

When that mill started up out there, you couldn’t really drink out the water fountains. You’d just dip your bottle in a cup or something in order to get a drink of water. But it wasn’t too bad like some places. Later on, when Martin Luther came and they segregated and then they had a ton of jobs loose that Black people could get, working on property jobs and all that types of stuff. But see, it wasn’t too bad out there at the mill.

	H:	Did Black workers have the same types of jobs as White workers and the same pay? Was it fair?

	O:	Yeah, it was fair. Yeah, because Blacks get the same pay as the Whites get. And then the top jobs, Blacks was getting the top jobs just like the Whites would. I was on one of the top jobs when I was up there, I had been there for forty years.

	M:	What was the top job? What did you do?



	O:	Complex operator powerhouse. Yeah. I have to take care of the water, gas, steam, lights, and all that.

	A:	The whole mill.



	O:	Basically the whole mill, because I had five boilers, three power boilers, I had to keep two of those power boilers alive at all times. You take a lot of time and they





found four power boilers. They had all that right there in front of you so all you had to do was take that button.

	H:	Is that how they distilled the black liquor, that process you’re talking about?



	O:	Yeah, the black liquor, we didn’t have nothing to do with that black liquor. The black liquor, it was even in the pulp mill. They had the white liquor and black liquor, same with me in the powerhouse. We didn’t have nothing to do with that black liquor and stuff like that.

	H:	What is that, black liquor?



	O:	Black liquor is one that in that power water, bring that black liquor and make that aspen, just like what’s under them ships. And it had the black liquor and the white liquor and that black liquor, it ain’t bad but that white liquor, it’ll eat you up if it get on you. I know lots of people that they lost their feet and things like that.

Got on their shoes and they end up burned. That’s when I learned, I know one got lawsuits for it. It eats through those shoes and into the foot.

	H:	They don’t use that anymore, right?



	O:	Oh, yeah, they still use it. Yeah, that white liquor and that black liquor. Yeah because that’s real. [inaudible 48:03] and they burn that black liquor and then they make that [inaudible 48:11] and then make that white liquor and that’s what eats them chips up.

	A:	To make that pulp?



	O:	That pulp, yes, that pulp is made with that chemicals they put in the pulp to eat up them chips when that pulp begins to turn into that pulp-contaminated acid.





	H:	Where does it go? Does it go out the [smoke]stacks or does it come out the pipes when it’s burning?

	O:	It come out them pipes, how do you think that stink? That stink out there, that’s when the pulp turns to make that steam.

	H:	But it’s not dangerous at that point, right? It’s just water.



	O:	Oh, no, it is. It’s dangerous. It’s dangerous in a way if you don’t know what you’re doing. If you know what you’re doing, it ain’t so bad. But see here, you take the digesters and all that type of things, people don’t think their job is as bad as it really is. Well, see, I like my job, what I have. I just sit there and you got to know what you’re doing. Everything is right there in front of you.

	H:	The last person we interviewed mentioned Christmas stockings, that the mill used to bring all of the children Christmas stockings, do you remember that?

	O:	Oh, yeah. They used to bring the children the Christmas gifts in them stockings.



Yeah, that was the good ol’ days. Yeah, they cut all that stuff out.



	H:	They don’t do anything like that anymore? O:	No. Very little.

	M:	Well, do you remember—When did integration first come to Cantonment? Do you remember how it happened here?

	O:	Yeah, let me see, that was 1965. They didn’t have integrating in the job yet though. They had to do when they had to, because that’s when I got changed to open-end raises and then I got the job moved forward. And then they had turned me on up there to the top job. As to why they did ever keep those jobs away from us, they didn’t have no—





	M:	Well, so what do you think has changed the most in Cantonment since years ago since you’ve been here for so many years?

	O:	I don’t know, what’s changed? M:	Yeah.

	O:	The houses, and it’s like the work at the mill, everything changed here. They kept Black folks down for quite a while. Finally, when Martin Luther King called them to integrate, and then that’s when you could see the daylight over in the mill.

	H:	Was the town of Cantonment segregated? Was there a White neighborhood, in a sense, and a Black neighborhood, and has that changed now or is that still the same way?

	O:	No, that didn’t change because you know, Black neighborhoods and White neighborhoods, you find lots of Black communities and White neighborhoods. Then, all of a sudden, they came all together now. Used to be a time you wouldn’t see nothing like that.

	H:	Where was that line? Wasn’t it on Muskogee Road somewhere, like north was the White neighborhoods or—Somebody explained that to me one time and I forgot what they said.

	O:	Yeah, because like you take the territory you see here, Blacks could live in right along through here. Right along through here, Black people could live. On down there further, White neighborhood. If you take north of here, if you take a couple of miles or three miles, it’ll go White, and then on the other side in about eight miles, and then Black. But they were all together. They weren’t together, it was a





very sparse community, Black and White. And now you find Black and White together now.

	H:	And do you remember the juke joints that when the musicians would come to the Belmont D’villers, we heard Mr. Belmont talk about that the musicians would come up here to play as well. Did you ever go and see any musicians up here, and where would they play?

	O:	Would they play?



	H:	I don’t know, that’s why I was asking if you remember any musicians or bands. O:	Oh, yeah, yeah, when they used to come out here?

	H:	Mmhm.



	O:	Yeah, it’s like a church right there. It was a club and musicians would come in and you used to have them come down here and play the church out here. Or I’d just come out, come to the church out here and play a couple days. Very big, pretty church right here in Cantonment.

	A:	Do you remember the name of them?



	O:	Yeah. Taylor Plays, Brown, and then Coup de Washington. Yeah. The three juke joints.

	H:	Do you remember any of the musicians that would play here?



O:  The musicians? I don’t know exactly what they were playing, they used to always look alike. They paid you basic in a file. In fact, they have a guy that come in for musicians and then the next week, he’ll be in a killing room. [Laughter]

H:   A what? A killing?





	A:	Did you hear what he said? He said they would come and then the next week they would have a killing. Somebody would get killed.

	H:	Oh, at the band? A:	At the juke joint.

	H:	For what? Like drugs or something?



	O:	You know, the guy would come in here saying things. They didn’t like each other, they was gonna kill ‘em. I know quite a few of them, most alive, to tell you the truth.

	H:	Not racial stuff? Just it was fighting at the bar?



	O:	Yeah. Yeah, Armen, should’ve come over during that time. A:	I would. [Laughter]

	H:	Sounds like fun.



	A:	Yeah, it’s rough.



	H:	Except when it’s rough.



	O:	Tell you what, if you’re by yourself, that used to be the real spot. You’d take a call in Belmont, it was a little club right there on the corner.

	H:	That’s where I live.



	A:	Do you remember a place called Joe’s Place. H:	I don’t remember Joe’s. Where was that?

	O:	That was on Belmont and Court. A:	Belmont and Court, yeah.

	H:	Okay, that’s just a parking lot now.





	O:	Yeah, because he didn’t run that place long. See, before he got it, it was a—I forget that guy’s name but what went on over there, he had a liquor store there.

	H:	So you had Abe’s, Five-Oh-Six, Gassy’s, the Taxi Stand. A:	He knew Abe. Didn’t you know him, Abe?

	O:	Yeah, Abe and I went to school together.



	H:	Really? I never knew him but I bet he was a character, huh? O:	Mmhm. Abe and I went to school together.

	H:	Wow. And then now, do you feel like Cantonment is—We’re, what, fifty years, sixty years outside of integration, and women have the right to vote and minorities have the right to vote, do you feel like Cantonment’s gotten more unified or do you still feel like there’s tension?

	O:	No, it’s unified. It’s unified now because I’ve seen a whole lot change. H:	That’s good.

	O:	Cantonment ain’t never been too bad of a place for me. When they brought Cantonment that mill, that made a difference in Cantonment.

	H:	Do you feel like the mill is still integrated with the community like it used to be?



Like giving back to the community? I mean, because it’s a new owner now. When did you retire?

	O:	When I retired, that had to be around forty years ago. H:	Forty years ago!

	O:	Yeah. [Laughter]



	H:	Wow. So that was Saint Regis at the time? O:	It was Champion.





	H:	Champion.



	O:	Yeah, Champion.



	A:	I tell him all the time, he’s getting all our social security money. O:	Exactly. When I retire, that’s the only thing they pay me.

	H:	Do you know people that work there now? O:	Oh yeah, I go see ‘em.

	H:	Do they like it as much as when you were there? O:	Oh, yeah.

	H:	Yeah, good.



	O:	They got a good thing now, they ain’t bad out there. It ain’t easy. It’s hard work, it just be some hard work out there. Did my time working with that woodyard out there, it wasn’t nothing but hard work? [inaudible 1:02:13] They got a good thing out there now.

	H:	In the [19]60s were there any movements here in Cantonment for integration? Did you have any protest-type things here? Did Martin Luther King’s group ever come here to any of the churches that you know of?

	O:	No.



	H:	Just curious.



	O:	It hasn’t ever been too bad right around here. H:	Mmhm.

	M:	Do you have other questions or? H:	I don’t think so.

	M:	Can I ask when you started making wine?





	O:	When I started making wine? Oh, I’d say about—It’s been about thirty years ago. M:	After you retired.

	O:	Yeah.



	M:	Okay. What got you to start it?



	O:	You know, just thought I’d just try fiddling, made some of that wine. Then we tasted it and it tastes so good. And he gave me the recipe of how to make it. And I tried it and it went all right. I didn’t stop making it until last year.

	M:	Oh, okay.



	H:	Who picks the blackberries? Do you pick the blackberries?



	O:	No, whenever I’m making the wine, me and my son go over there. They’re already at the front gate out there.

	A:	There at the roads out there, a big bed of it.



	O:	I’ll take them, stop for my blackberries, and then I’m stepping on them. And then I step on them, make it better.

	M:	I’ve heard you still like fishing, this is what I was told, that you’ve done a lot of fishing now just as a kid but—

	O:	Yeah I used to fish but I quit that. I can’t go now.



	A:	Escambia River, he was out there with some craft all the way up Escambia River. I used to go with him a lot and the only reason he don’t catch fish, he’ll tell you, is throw your line and fish in that spot there. If you throw it in there, you’ll catch one. If you mess up and throw it, you won’t catch no fish. He just knows the river, where the fish are.

	M:	Wow. What did you fish for, just everything?





	O:	Just brim. Brim, bass, I used to do a lot of saltwater fishing too. H:	Did you go over to Eleven-Mile a lot?

	O:	Eleven Mile? The road that has eleven miles? There ain’t no fishing through Eleven Mile.

	H:	I thought you said you used to fish in Eleven Mile. O:	Oh, that’s when I was a kid.

	H:	What changed?



	O:	That’s before the paper mill come in here. When that paper mill come in here and they dumped that water right down Eleven Mile Creek, it killed all the fish. All the creeks and things closed down and everything.

	H:	So you can’t fish there no more?



	O:	Oh, no. You don’t fish there. Yeah, Eleven Mile Creek ain’t nothing but just stuff from that mill out there. No fish.

	M:	Well, I mean, we want to be respectful of your time and I think we’ve covered a lot of stories, but is there anything you would want to close the recording with? Any final thoughts you have or anything you’d want to talk about that we didn’t walk about.

	O:	No, I don’t think so.



	M:	Okay. Well, thank you very much. O:	All right.





[End of interview] Transcribed by: Abby Lovett





Audit-Edited by: Sandra Romero, July 14, 2021 Final-Edited by: Sandra Romero, July 15, 2021