AAHP 053A; Felder; Page 10





Samuel Proctor Oral History Program College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Program Director: Dr. Paul Ortiz


Joel Buchanan Archive of African American History: http://ufdc.ufl.edu/ohfb









241 Pugh Hall

PO Box 115215

Gainesville, FL 32611

(352) 392-7168

https://oral.history.ufl.edu







AAHP 053A Alonzo Felder African American History Project (AAHP)

Interview Conducted by Michael Schane on June 11, 2009 32 minutes | 14 pages



Abstract: Alonzo Felder, a University of Florida Graduate and a Duke University faculty member, begins the interview by discussing his religious history growing up. He came from a long line of Methodists but attended a Catholic school. At the University of Florida in 1974, he joined the Jewish fraternity Alpha Epsilon Pi. Despite being and an African American and not a practicing Jew, he says that he never experienced any discrimination. He later joined the Church of Christ. Felder dives into the subject of racism. While he cites multiple examples of race discrimination in his own life, he says that he doesn’t let the way other people view him affect how he lives his life. Felder describes how it seems race tensions are more pronounced at the University of Florida than at Duke University. The interviewer asks about the recent election of Barack Obama and Felder explains that he believes that it won’t ultimately change the minds of racist people because individuals need to personally interact with people of different races to overcome prejudice.





Keywords: [African American History; University of Florida; Alachua County, Florida; Racism]

































For information on terms of use of this interview, please see the SPOHP Creative Commons license at http://ufdc.ufl.edu/AfricanAmericanOralHistory.



AAHP 053A

Interviewee: Alonzo Felder Interviewer: Mitchell Schane Date: June 11, 2009

	S:	Hi, this is Mitchell Schane from the Samuel Proctor Oral History Program at the University of Florida, and today I will be interviewing Mr. Alonzo Felder from Duke University. Hi, Mister Felder. How are you doing today?

	F:	Hi there, Mitchell. I’m doing well, how about yourself?



	S:	I’m doing pretty good. So, I’ve heard that pretty much all of your family has lived in Gainesville throughout their whole lives. What made you go to Duke University?

	F:	Wow, interesting story there: my family roots, like you say, are in the Gainesville area—actually in the city of Alachua. And I grew up in St. Petersburg, Florida.

Went to the University of Florida for college, and after graduating, worked in Saint Petersburg for a while, lived down in the Caribbean for a while, came back to the States, and one of my best friends invited me to Durham, North Carolina for a two-week vacation. That’s turned into two decades of living in Durham.

Applied for a job while I was here, and got a job, wife got a job; we moved.



	S:	That’s very interesting. How long did you live in Gainesville before you actually moved to North Carolina?

	F:	The only time I actually lived in Gainesville was for college. Arrived there after graduating in 1973—excuse me, [19]74—started as a freshman there at U of F, and after two bachelors programs left in 1980.

	S:	So I also heard that while you were at UF, you joined a Jewish Fraternity. F:	[Laughter] Yeah I’m a member of AEPi.

	S:	I also heard that you’re a leader of one of the United Churches of Christ.





	F:	Actually it is a Church of Christ, not a United Church of Christ. That’s a different organization. Yeah. Seems like an apparent conflict. I can kind of give you some background there. Like I say, grew up in St Petersburg, and from a long line of Methodist preachers. And my mother’s side of the family had all always been involved with the Methodist Church, and growing up—and I say “growing up”: up until about the second grade. In that time, I think our involvement in this familywise started to wane. My grandmother stayed a very devout member of the Methodist church for a majority of her life; mom pretty much decided to do nothing, and I didn’t fare well in the public school system, so the solution was to enroll me in private Catholic schools. Well, I ended up being one of a very small handful of kids in the school that was not Catholic, but Mass was mandatory every Friday, and religion class was a part of the regular curriculum. So this is— the school I was in first through eighth grade. I actually started there, I guess the beginning of my fourth grade year. Enjoyed it for a while. Eventually, in high school, got really discontent with both the Methodist church and the Catholic church. Knew that there was some Jewish heritage in the family. Didn’t know a whole lot about it, but started investigating my senior year of college—the local Temple there in St. Pete—and just trying to figure out who I was, and what I was going to do in life. I sort of described myself in high school as an agnostic. I believed there was a God, but I was convinced I had no idea who He was or how to connect with Him. And by the time I hit freshman year at Florida, I thought, “Well, you know, the Christians have really fouled it up so far in my life, so let’s see what the Jews have to say.” And my best friend and I pledged AEPi. Actually





got a masters bid to join the frat the first night of pledging, and that was that. Lived in the house for—actually, stayed in my dorm, but you know, unofficially lived in the house for about two years. And during that time period, befriended a couple of guys from the Church of Christ there in Gainesville; the Crossroads Church came through the dorms, inviting people to a Bible talk. I took them up on it, and discovered that maybe the Christians weren’t so far off base, but maybe it was just some of the ways that I’d seen it practiced. Converted to Christianity, and have been a part of that movement ever since. That was back in 1970—well, again, [19]74.

	S:	Did your family have, like, any objections to you joining a Jewish fraternity or—? F:	No, they actually had more objections with me getting connected with the

Churches of Christ. They didn’t really mind the fact that I was in a Jewish fraternity They—my mom, like I said, had pretty much stopped going to church altogether, and my grandmother who—the three of us all lived in the same house; I was raised by the two of them—Grandma just wanted me to figure out, you know, how to love God and live life. So they were—honestly, their reaction was a little more severe with my brand of Christianity than it was with Judaism.

	S:	While you were in the Jewish fraternity here at UF, did you experience any problems, being that you weren’t Jewish or that you were African American?

	F:	None at all. In fact, there was another African American guy who pledged the same year that I did. We went through the—we were in the same pledge class. And we didn’t—as far as I know, Al didn’t experience any sort of, you know, problems, racism, or anything like that going on. And there was one of our





brothers who left the fraternity during—right, shortly after our pledge period was over. Mark, who converted to Christianity. Mark was actually raised as a Jew, and his conversion took place shortly after our pledge period. The brothers were fairly acceptant of, you know, guys choosing their own path and doing what they needed to do for themselves. If there was any pressure, I was too oblivious to notice.

	S:	Well I, I’ve also been told that you have an aunt who is a hundred and one years old that has lived in Gainesville for most of her life.

	F:	That’s a cousin of mine. She is—I can kind of give you the family connection: this is my grandmother’s sister’s daughter. So, that actually makes her a cousin, and she has lived in Alachua County all of her life, and I’ll be there to visit her in July. She turns a hundred and one July 13th.

	S:	Have any of your family members that have lived in Gainesville experienced any racial problems being in Gainesville during the Jim Crow era, or any recent problems at all?

	F:	I know—problems existed in the early 1900’s, especially having to do with the— actually, the murder of my great grandfather, who lived in Alachua County. He was killed by a neighboring White farmer that he’d accused of encroaching upon his land, and that issue, just because of the timeframe—we’re talking 1904 through 1905, where that whole case took place. That was a period where race relations were pretty low, and the grand jury found the neighbor with a—legally, with a “no bill.” In other words, the grand jury met and said there was not enough evidence to accuse him of a crime, so it’s on the books as a justifiable homicide,





because the guy who did the shooting was White, my great-grandfather was Black. There’s all sorts of racial tension that’s just naturally built in. When I have visited the family as recently as last year, there is still a lot of tension, and much of it seems very much race, racially-based. With the thought, if this had been a White guy shooting a White guy, the results would’ve probably been very different. But the fact that it was a White guy shooting a Black guy, that’s just justifiable homicide. That’s just the way things are.

	S:	Did that whole situation change your family’s viewpoints at all at that time, or was everyone pretty much always having the views on the racial situation the same?

	F:	My family has been, I think, very tolerant of racial injustice, bigotry, you know, attitudes. I learned as a very small child that, you know, when people have racial stereotypes, or they use racial slurs, it’s really an education and a social problem with the person using it. Give you an example: one of my very first experiences of racism growing up in Saint Petersburg. Was probably five years old, five maybe six years old. My mother and I were in a McCrory’s Drug Store, Five and Dime.

Sort of convenience-type store. And the situation in the store was, you had a soda fountain and counter where you could go up and order a hamburger, order a float of ice cream, whatever, and across the top of the counter were colored balloons. Inside of each balloon was a little slip of paper with a price tag. You could order a banana spilt at the counter for whatever the tag in the balloon said. So, it was one to ninety-nine. You never paid more than a dollar for a banana split. So I sat at the counter, and directly in front of me was a nice red balloon. So I told the woman at the counter to pop the red balloon, and I would pay whatever





price was in there; I wanted a banana split. She turned around, looked me square in the eye, and said, “You need to get down from here because we don’t serve”—and she used the N-word—“here.” Well, like I say, I’m about five or six; I just turned around on the stool to my mom who was a couple aisles over, and just loudly across the store, went, “Mom, what’s a ‘nigger?’” Because I’d really never heard it before. Mom replied, “Oh, honey, that’s just what stupid White people call Colored people.” Turned around and started back looking at the clothes that she was looking at. And I remember that so clearly, and that was really, I think that has been the attitude of my family—is, you know, when folks stoop that low, they just don’t know any better.

	S:	That’s very true, I feel the same way. And when you were in that store with your mom, and she said that’s what stupid White people said, did that cause any problems, or did no one hear her?

	F:	Oh, everyone heard her, because she was a couple aisles away from me. And yeah, the whole store heard the whole conversation. But there was nothing said or done that I remember.

	S:	Do you think that’s unusual, or do you think that if an African American said something derogatory towards a White, there would be problems?

	F:	I don’t know. My mom was well capable of defending herself and protecting herself. [Laughter] I would imagine they just didn’t want to bother with it. And also, I really—you know, as I look back, I’m curious even the context of our visit there. I’ve been doing some research on just the Jim Crow era, and what it was like during that time period, and I discovered that in 1961 in St. Petersburg,





Florida, there was a series of boycotts, sit-ins, and protests done by the Black community at this particular store and another store in the St. Petersburg area. It wouldn’t surprise me if this whole encounter took place while my mom was there with other friends protesting. And you know, if that were the case, I’m sure they probably had more colorful issues to deal with than this woman and her small child.

	S:	After dealing with that first experience that you had to deal with of racism, how did that change your life at that time? Because I’m sure when you were younger you didn’t realize it at all, and you were, you know, a happy kid?

	F:	Mitchell, it’s interesting: I have lived so much of my life oblivious to race, in the sense that my family taught me, “You’re special. You’re good. You’re important. You can do anything you want to do.” And I was one of those kids who actually believed it! [Laughter] So I never walked around with this feeling of “There’s something wrong with me, and I have to fight and defend a system in order for me to feel good about myself.” I’ve lived a lot of my life feeling that when I see injustice, and specifically racism, I tend to count it as stupidity or lack of knowledge on the part of the person who presents it, and I’ll deal with it accordingly. If I can help them, if I can educate them, I’ll do it. If there’s just no hope, and they’re just the way they are, there’s not a whole lot I can do about it other than choose not to deal with them. My family is, I think very—not very unusual, very common with all African American families in this country, in that you put us all together and you’re going to see a rainbow of skin tones, hair tones. We’re a mixed lot. And that’s just in our culture and our history in this





country. So it doesn’t make a whole lot of sense for me to hate someone, or have bad feelings towards someone, because of the way that they look. Because I won’t have to look that far, even within my own family, to find someone who probably looks a whole lot like them.

	S:	So, would you say that racism has affected anybody else in your family, or had a big impact on their life, or have you guys just done what you’ve said, and like, lived your life not really dealing with it, or growing up—just go on with your lives?

	F:	With my immediate family, I don’t see a whole lot of impact. I mean, yes, we’ve all experienced it, but I look at the way the family members I’ve grown up around have treated the issue. It’s been on a individual basis, and not a global basis. In other words, my mom, I know, had a job where she worked with a woman who made some racist comments about her, or to her while she was working. Mom’s response was to quit and find another job. She didn’t come home and tell me that all White people are just crazy. But this one was, and she didn’t have to deal with it. So, and I see that throughout my family, is that we tend to treat people on an individual basis, and evaluate them as people and not as a group.

	S:	In some of the books that we’ve read in Professor Ortiz’s classes, they said that different African American families had methods of dealing with racism with their family. Like, some of them would try to shield their children from it, and just try to not let them know about it. And others were, like, real hardliners, and told them to always stand up for themselves. Which method do you think your parents choose?

	F:	I would say my family is more of the latter, in terms of standing up; and in some





cases, I’ve seen—I don’t know if I would term it “retaliation,” but even some reverse racism on a typical standard. I’ll give you a couple examples: in growing up, there were guys who always came through the neighborhood selling things: salesmen. The most prominent features in our neighborhood were the insurance collectors, life and health insurance guys, and the sort of delivery services: the guy who delivered ice for the ice box, the vegetable vendor, and, you know, folks like that. A lot of these guys were predominantly Jewish, but in the case of, I remember the insurance agent was a White guy. Well, my grandmother’s policy was that the insurance guy, the delivery guys, always came to the back door.

And it was much later on in life that I kind of added, put one and one together, and saw that as I guess her way of dealing with racism. Because anytime she had to go to a White person’s house, you always went to the back door. Well, when the guy came to collect the premium, if the normal guy wasn’t on the route and a new guy was taking his route and came to the front door, Grandma would always meet them at the screen door and say, “Oh no, you need to come around back.” And she would just close the door in their face and walk to the back door. To me that spoke volumes of how she would deal with it. I saw that same practice when I was in Gainesville with my Aunt Ella, the mother of the cousin we were just talking about who’s about to turn a hundred and one. I would spend summers in Alachua with her, and whenever vendors of any kind came to the door, I noticed if they were White, she sent them to the back door.

	S:	Did that ever cause any problems, or did that—?



	F:	No. Because if they didn’t want to go to the back door, she just didn’t deal with





them. It’s just very matter of fact. Much in the way that Blacks were treated.



	S:	So, you said that you visited Gainesville a lot during the summer to stay with your aunt, right?

	F:	Yeah.



	S:	How do you think, or how have you noticed at all, Gainesville has changed from then up until now?

	F:	Oh, it’s changed? Hadn’t noticed! [Laughter] Wow. Gainesville seems to still focus on racial issues. That’s just the take I have on it. I’m not sure; I’m not sure how to best describe it. But it seems like in conversations with people there, in conversations with African Americans in the area, references are always qualified. You know, Mitchell, if I’m talking to you, and I’m going to describe my co-worker, I may say, you’re my co-worker, “he’s a great guy, we do a lot of stuff together. We really keep the place going.” And you know, just tell you what we do, is typically the way I function. Speaking to folks in that area of the country, probably within the first paragraph, it would be noted the race of that co-worker. And like I say, I’ve lived in Florida, in the Caribbean, in North Carolina, and it seems like there in Gainesville, the racial qualification is always there in conversation. Which I find a little—I mean, it’s not offensive, but it’s just unusual that most people can’t carry on a conversation concerning someone of a different race without referencing their race. And silence usually means that they’re White.

	S:	So how, being that you’ve been on campus at the University of Florida and now at Duke, would you say there is a big difference between race relations there between the two campuses?





	F:	Between the two campuses? Now, you got to understand, that I left Gainesville in 1980. So, it’s been a while. And I’m not sure I could even make a comparison.

	We’ve had a couple generations—we’ve had a generation pass by. [Laughter] S:	Have you ever dealt with any racism, or any of your—any other faculty at North

Carolina or Duke deal with any problems?



	F:	Not really. I’m trying to think here if there is. Nothing comes to mind in terms of an issue that came up that was really racially charged.

	S:	At University of Florida, with the election of Barack Obama, the night of the actual election, somebody hacked into the UF system and sent out a very racist text message to all students and faculty.

	F:	Wow. [Laughter] Yeah, well, that didn’t happen here at Duke!



	S:	Were there any problems at all on campus revolving around the election of Barack Obama?

	F:	There—well, I take it back: yes, there were. Now, here at Duke, I didn’t hear of any, I heard of some over at University of North Carolina. We have a walkway, a tunnel walkway, that you can paint—you know, do graffiti on. And there was some pretty nasty stuff put up over at UNC. Here on Duke’s campus, I do not recall hearing about anything like that going on.

	S:	Well, with the election of Barack Obama, how do you think that’s going to impact the country and everybody dealing with race problems?

	F:	There’s one part of my brain that just says it won’t impact us, but then the news can tell me differently. Yesterday, we had this guy take a shotgun and walk in the Holocaust museum, and kill a guard, and I guess try to shoot some other folks.





Racists are always going to be with us, no matter who’s president. I think the fact that we have an African American president is—it is significant. Will it change our country’s view on racism and Black people in America? I don’t think so. I mean, it’s not like the nation’s never seen a Black guy before. So.

	S:	Do you think it will at all silence any racists, or do you think that it during his term that it will cause more problems?

	F:	No, I don’t think it’s going to cause any more problems. I don’t know that it’ll solve or take away any. There may be some folks who, this might be the first time they’ve actually had sort of a constant exposure to an African American. You know, folks who watch a lot of television. But don’t say—I’m thinking, White folks that watch a lot of television but don’t have any Black friends; suddenly, they’re seeing a lot more Black folk. Is that going to change them? I kind of doubt it. You know, that kind of change is going to take place on a very grassroots, one on one, community level. If you’re a racist, be it Black or White, your only hope of becoming a non-racist is to get to know somebody of the opposite race. The fact that your senator, congressman or president is of a different race then you are, I don’t think that’s going to make a difference in your life.

	S:	I completely agree with you on that. Well, is there anything else you would like to add in the interview?

	F:	Not that I can think of.



	S:	Okay, thank you for your time. F:	Alrighty.

	S:	This was a very interesting and insightful interview.





	F:	I could take that a couple ways, but—. [Laughter] S:	I meant it in a good way. [Laughter]

	F:	Well, may you have many more good and interesting interviews. You say I’m the first one?

	S:	Yes.



	F:	Okay. Well, hey: enjoy yourself. If you have any follow-ups or need anything else from me, just give me a buzz.

	S:	All right, thank you.



	F:	Okay? Good talking to you, Mitchell. Buh-bye. S:	Bye.

[End of interview]





	Audit-edited by:	Ryan Morini, April 27, 2017 Final edit by:	Ryan Morini, February 17, 2019